What you have right now is an earnings
driven market.
>> People want to get exposure to growth
and strong economy earnings go ahead.
>> Earnings momentum doesn't seem like it's
peing.
>> If you think of what's driving these
global markets right [music] now, it's a
semiconductor super cycle for the
history books.
>> It's the casting away of fear in its
entirety that will end up being the
market's biggest [music] problem at some
point. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, yields up, stocks down.
Global price pressure building, sending
US 10ear yields through 450 as borrowing
costs in Japan break out to levels not
seen since the late '9s. guilts [music]
sinking to new lows heading into a
battle to topple the British prime
minister. The bond market shaken this
morning.
>> There are two things here. On one hand,
you could say that an oil price shock
would eventually be disinflationary,
[music]
but only when you get demand
destruction. And right now, at least in
the world's biggest economies, you are
not seeing that level of demand
destruction because frankly, it is in
the political interest of different
parties [music] to keep demand strong.
So, you're seeing inflation, you're
seeing it come through in the PPIs
around the world. The second thing is
it's not clear when this oil price shock
is going to end. President Trump coming
out and saying just overnight. We don't
need the street of Vermuse open anyway.
It is not our problem because we have
our own oil. So how much emphasis is
there on resolving this issue?
>> This has been building for a while.
We've been talking about it continuously
over the last several weeks. Check out
the US curve now. 2's 10 30s 10 through
450 30s through 5% leadership issues in
the UK. [music] An inflation problem
globally. an incoming Fed chair with a
very unclear reaction function at
[music] this point. And we often say
this, the market will always test the
new Fed chair in different ways at
different times. Maybe that test is
coming slightly early.
>> And in fairness to him, he's not exactly
coming into an easy scenario. You've got
resurgent inflation globally. You've got
a fiscal impulse that is to simply
stimulate, not necessarily to curtail or
have any kind of restraint when it comes
to any kind of debt incurrence. You have
very high debt loads around the world.
And you have a new regime. We are not
going back to zero interest rates
anytime soon. And he has to fend off
with a president who doesn't want to see
this economy stall out and with a market
that is petrified that he's going to
allow inflation become unor.
>> There's another force in the mix here
that I hope we spend some time on
throughout this morning and it's the
crowding gout from other places. is we
caught up with the OpenAI CFO who wants
to raise more capital even after a
massive monster raise in private markets
Alphabet on a $60 billion debt binge
over the last 4 months and ultimately
likely to raise more [music] capital in
the year ahead. There's some crowding
out here that I think is noteworthy.
>> There is an insatiable demand to raise
money to fund some of the hyperscaler
buildout and so far they've seen
absolutely resounding demand. It seems
like there isn't enough cash to be piled
into these bonds. Alphabet can go around
the world. It's sort of the world tour.
Go to Japan. Go to Switzerland. Go to uh
the European continent. Raise as much
cash as you can. And everyone's
clamoring to give it to them. They're
trying to get ahead of what they are
they already anticipate to be [music]
some sort of saturation. And they want
to avoid the saturation by spreading out
the love, spreading out the debt sales.
At what point does that take away from
some of the government bonds that
frankly have a less reliable balance
sheet behind them? I mean, again, who
would you rather lend the money to right
now? alphabet or you know developed
market economy and
>> this is how the stage is set so far this
morning. Crude inching higher up by
three to four percent bonds down yields
up stocks sinking down about 1% on the
S&P 500 pulling [music] back from
alltime highs. Coming up this hour we'll
catch up with Sebastian Page of Tro as
bond yields break out. Mary Lovely of
the Peterson Institute as the US and
China extend their trade truce and Dan
Ies of Wedbush as Sarah surges on its
trading debut. We begin this hour with
stocks sinking and bond yields breaking
out. Sebastian Page of Tro Price
writing, "We're neutral between stocks
and bonds, balancing strong earnings
momentum against high valuations and
macro risk. Stay diversified, stay
invested, and hedge inflation risk."
Sebastian joins us now for more. Seb,
welcome to the program. That last line's
important. Hedging inflation risk. How
much of a challenge now is coming from
the bond market?
>> I think it's a meaningful challenge,
Jonathan. You know, when you're in the
investment business and you're at a
cocktail party and someone asks you for
advice or stock tips, the good thing to
say is always stay invested, stay
diversified. But right now, I would say
stay invested, stay diversified, hedge
inflation risk. My message to our
clients is diversify your hedges. Lisa's
hinted at this. Treasuries won't do the
job if we get inflation volatility. We
like a portfolio of hedges. We like to
hold cash, be short duration. We like
real asset equities, energy companies,
metal companies. We actually like hedged
equities. You know, buy protection and
then you can still participate in the
rally. You give up part of the upside,
but what you end up with is a
diversified set of hedges while staying
invested because you know what, the
earnings, Jonathan, you've been talking
about this on the show all week. They're
amazing. We thought we'd get 13%
year-over-year growth at the end of
March. We're we're trending at 30%
year-over-year growth. Those are massive
massive earnings surprises. So stay
diversified hedge facial.
>> Seb, I totally agree with you and you
and I have been talking about this over
the last several months, the journey of
the last two to three months. We had the
energy shock. At times we started to see
a rate shock emerge. We're seeing that
again globally, not just in the US and
Japan and the UK. Is that going to
translate into a growth shock? Do you
think we can withstand the latter?
>> You know, if you do get a growth shock,
you will want treasuries. I'm not saying
you should just remove all treasuries
from your portfolio and just put all
this in gold. It's a diversified set of
hedges. But Jonathan, you frame this
first as a chain reaction and it's a
slowmoving chain reaction. And I really
like liked how you framed it, right? you
were talking about an oil shock that
leads to an inflation shock that leads
to a rate shock that eventually tightens
financial conditions and that leads to a
growth shock. I'm not too worried about
the growth shock because the underlying
US economy is running it looks like at
6% nominal growth right now and the
economic surprises are trending up not
down so far this year. But this is this
is the ma main risk in financial
markets. Jonathan, it's the collision
course between inflation and Fed policy.
And you know, Jeff Gonlac will say the
way you look at this collision course,
what could force the Fed's hand, despite
all the politics that are going in in
the background is the 2-year yield. And
it's trending up this morning. It's at
4.1% and the top Fed rate is at 375.
There's there's a dissonance there.
Well, Sebastian, one p one speculation
has been that you might want to buy the
2-year because this Fed is not going to
raise rates under any condition
regardless of how hot inflation gets
unless inflation goes to 9% again. But
you will see that relief valve when it
comes to the long end of the yield curve
in terms of yields going up and frankly
the dollar growing weaker. Do you adhere
to that kind of idea?
No, we're hedging. Look, we're hedging
inflation and I I do think the Fed will
have to face some very difficult
decisions. My my economist friends tell
me never to annualize two monthly data
points, but I'm going to do it just for
fun. Annualize the last two CPI prints
and you get a 5% rate. You know, I'm a
runner. I like to look at my watch when
I'm running and what's the pace right
now? Well, the pace right now of
inflation, let's say it's four. Let's
say it's 4 and a half. Let's say it's
5%. The Fed's target is two. So, you
can't maintain an easing bias, at least
in the short run. Lisa, in the meantime,
Sebastian, one thing that seems kind of
counterintuitive in terms of your
positioning is you're actually going
more heavily into the US, kind of
undiversifying some of the exposure on
the equity side, and frankly
concentrating a lot of your exposure to
the AI trade. Why is that?
You know, we've done well with the
broadening trade and now we're taking
some profits. We've reduced those
positions, say small cap and especially
international and we're moving money
from international into the US for a few
reasons, Lisa, but it's clear that
Europe is much more sensitive to the
energy shock than the US. The US being a
net exporter of oil. We think that the
AI theme is best expressed right now
amongst the many ways to express the AI
theme in US large cap growth stocks. The
earnings for US large cap growth stocks,
yes, you'll say it's a high bar, but if
you look at the projections grow for
growth for the earnings for the next 12
months, they're they're at like 28%. And
this is a all-time high for the 25 years
of data that I have on my chart. Now,
this a high bar, but those are companies
that tend to meet that high bar. So, you
have high earnings growth, high margins,
and the valuations, well, for large cap
growth in the US, they're below the
5-year average. And the MAG 7, if you
look at the equal index on Bloomberg,
you know, it was at 40 at the peak, now
it's at 26. So, you it's not it's not
bubbish valuation in my mind. And so
we're moving some money, especially from
the international into the US large cap
growth segment.
>> That demand is going to be met with
supply. And I'll tell you what I mean by
that, Seb. 10 years ago, in the last
decade or so, we spent a lot of time
talking about so-called asset scarcity.
Now we're shifting towards abundance. So
let's take the big players in the US
equity market. They were buying back a
lot of stock and they weren't issuing a
lot of debt. That's flipped and we're
going to get several major IPOs later
this year as well. as you switch from
scarcity to something that looks a
little bit more like abundance. How does
this market handle that?
>> Yeah, look, those companies are
transforming and we're looking at the
capex. It's massive. I mean, the last
estimate I saw was for three trillion by
2028. Now, this is a stimulus for the
economy. But in the end, those companies
have massive margins, massive earnings
growth relative to the rest of the
market. And also you know relative to
history people like to do comb bubble
kind of you know over supply of of of of
infrastructure and overbuilding
infrastructure I think we will get there
and that's a risk but for six to 12
months ahead views uh I think I think
this keeps going Jonathan and you know
those companies the margins are double
the margins are basically double what
they were at the peak of the dotcom
bubble so you can't really compare the
valuations here.
>> Seb, it's good to see you as always,
sir. Thanks for being with us. Sebastian
Paige there at T- Road Prize working
through some issues. We'll spend some
time with Dan Ives on Cerebras. What a
debut for that stock. Foam in the runway
for some major IPO set to come maybe in
the next 12 months.
>> On one hand, you could say that the
actual shares sold much higher than the
original marketing price. And then you
see the pop, the 68% pop, and then the
follow on today and you think about all
the billionaires that have been created
and you start thinking to yourself,
>> was that underpriced? And what does that
mean for OpenAI and for Anthropic that
could come later this year?
>> I think that's just the thing I'm
focused on at the moment. I don't think
it's a massive challenge right now, but
it's a story for the next 12 months.
These major tech players issuing more
debt, these big companies in private
markets becoming public and issuing more
equity. They're the kind of things that
I'm laser focused on for the next 12
months,
>> especially because is Cerebras truly a
guide for OpenAI and anthropic? OpenAI
in particular, which has run into some
snags and had some reporting about maybe
slower uh bookings than they had
expected. Futures down this morning by
1% on the S&P 500 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Good [music] morning John. President
Trump has departed China after two days
of talks with Xiinping. The Chinese
president hailing the summit touting a
new bilateral relationship. Details
about any commercial deals reached
remain scarce and could be announced in
the future.
President Trump saying President Xi
offered to help in getting the Straight
of Hormuse reopened. Trump telling
[music] Fox News that the US doesn't
need it opened and that the blockade
serves to help Israel and other Gulf
allies.
And as you all were just discussing, we
are [music] seeing Cerebra shares
actually lower nearly 3% in the
pre-market amid the broader chip and
[music] market selloff. It shares surged
68% yesterday in its trading debut with
the AI chipmaker raising$5.5 [music]
billion dollars in this year's largest
IPO yet. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next on the program,
maintaining a trade truce.
>> This has been an incredible visit. I
think a lot of a lot of good has come of
it. We've made some fantastic trade
deals. Great for both countries. In just
a moment, we'll catch up with Mary
Lovely of the Peterson Institute and An
Marie on the ground in Beijing, China.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
As of Thursday's close, all-time highs
on the S&P 500, heading towards a
seventh consecutive weekly gain, the
longest weekly winning streak
potentially going all the way back to
December 2023. This morning, we're
taking a bite out of that game. We're
down 1% on the [music] S&P. We're
negative 1.4% on the NASDAQ 100. At the
epicenter of some of the jitters this
morning, these moves in the bond market.
Twos 10 30 states side twos through 4%
[music] 10 through 450 30s sticking
above 5% similar moves taking place
globally much larger moves in the UK
leadership problems there in Japan
really hot [music] PPI coming out of the
Japanese economy. Japanese yields at
levels we haven't seen since the 1990s.
>> Yeah. And this comes after the hot PPI
print that we got in the United States.
Just to give you a sense of how hot it
was, producer prices in Japan jumped
4.9% [music]
last month. That was compared to an
estimate of 3%. It gives you a sense of
just how much faster some of this
inflationary pressure [music] is than
people expected.
>> 12 year highs right out of Japan. Major
major numbers out of Japan. Numbers that
were unthinkable going back a couple of
decades. Looking at the energy market,
this is not helping. Brent crude higher
by 3% on WTI. Brent crude up by 3% as
well. The president asked about the
situation in the Middle East. Asked
about reopening the straight of this is
where we really haven't moved things
forward. zero progress in the past few
days.
>> Yeah. Not only that, but he just went to
we don't need the straight of Hermuz,
especially if the allies aren't going to
help because they'd rely on it
significantly more than the United
States possibly. [music] This is why
you're seeing a bigger selloff over in
Europe since that economy is much more
dependent on that. He went on to say,
"From a military standpoint, Iran is
finished, but they're [music] clogging
up the straight of our muse." A real
question here about what the
deliverables were. a lot of nicities
between agreements between the US and
China about some sort of uh Iranian help
or some sort of mutual understanding.
Not seeing any details that could give
people comfort this morning.
>> A quiet rally in the energy [music]
market throughout the whole of this week
and we add to it WTI at 104. Brent crude
closing in on 109 this morning
maintaining a trade truce.
>> This has been an incredible visit. I
think a lot of a lot of good has come of
it. We've made some fantastic trade
deals. Great for both countries. Uh he's
a man I respect greatly. Become really a
friend. We've known each other now 11
years, almost 12 years. That's a long
time. And we've settled a lot of
different problems that other people
wouldn't have been able to settle.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump and Xi Jinping
announcing important trade deals. The
two nations agreeing to stabilize
relations without any major
breakthroughs. Amory on the ground in
Beijing, China, and joins us now for
more. Amory, the president's own words
that we've been able to settle a lot of
different problems. What problems have
we settled on this trip? [snorts]
>> It's a great question, Jonathan. Lots of
smiles on this trip. Not a lot of
substance, at least given to the press
in terms of what Xi Jinping and
President Donald Trump decided on. When
it comes to trade, though, that's what
this White House really wants to focus
on. I spoke to Ambassador Jameson Greer
earlier this morning. He reiterated that
the what the president had also said to
Fox News in terms of Boeing jets, but
only 200. Jonathan, remember the
expectation going into this trip was
maybe an order as big as 500. Ambassador
Gear also talked about massive
agricultural products that China was
going to be willing to buy. We're still
waiting on more details though and
clarity from the Chinese side about what
exactly they are going to purchase. And
then when it comes to an item like rare
earths, remember this is when the
negotiated negotiations last year got
really tense because China started to
use rare earth licenses as a real
negotiating tool. Jameson Greer said
he's giving them a passing grade. So
almost feels like we're going back to
where this relationship was before the
trade war. One place we know there's
clarity on and a place that didn't get a
whole lot of discussion according to
Ambassador Greer was chips. Tons of
speculation that semiconductors and
export controls was going to be on the
negotiating table because Jensen Wong's
last minute appearance on this trip and
Jameson Greer says it wasn't. Take a
listen.
>> You want to make sure you strike a
balance between national security,
protecting high-tech, uh, but also
making sure that we're benefiting from
overseas markets. And so those are the
kinds of things that went into the H200
decision. As to whether the Chinese are
going to buy or not, again, they're
making their own determinations. They're
very committed to domestic production.
>> Ambassador Greer there making it very
clear it's going to be up to China to
determine whether or not they are going
to buy those H200s.
>> And Marie, fantastic conversation.
Looking forward to hearing more of that
later on in the program. We'll catch up
with AMH in the next hour. This came
from Emily Goodwin of the New York Post.
You'll be told this was a great meeting.
The relations between the two nations
have improved. Take a listen to this.
American staff took everything that the
Chinese officials handed out.
Credentials, burner phones from White
House staff, pins for delegations,
collected them before we cut on Air
Force One, and threw them in a bin at
the bottom of the stairs. Nothing from
China was allowed on the plane. That's
the real state of the relationship
between China and the United States.
>> There is a lot of speculation about
exactly what was accomplished and
potentially how tense some of these
relations have remained despite some of
the nicities. And that clearly is the
uncertainty feeding out through a lot of
the different reporting.
>> Joining us now to discuss Mary Lovely of
the Penis Institute. She writes the
following. The summit has succeeded in
maintaining a tactical truce but failed
to achieve resolution in the major
irritants in the relationship. Mary
joins us now for more. Mary, welcome to
the program. Let's just start with those
major irritants because there will be
another summit potentially in September.
What are they?
>> Well, Amory just talked about chips.
Clearly the Chinese have um boked at the
US export controls. They have since
moved on. They're now devoted to their
own development of their own domestic
chips. Uh but if we look back at the
last year, we can see that the main
irritants or the most proximate errands
were President Trump's acceleration of
the tariffs that had been placed on
China in its his first term and then the
Chinese invoking new export controls on
critical minerals. Uh a potentially very
disruptive move for US industry and the
US move to rearm following the war in
Iran.
So where did we get with any of that? As
far as we know, there may have been some
trade discussed particularly by
Secretary Bessant and his Chinese
counterpart. But between the two
principles, I think we have seen that
there was no discussion of export
controls and very little accomplished on
the trade front. So the irritants really
are still there.
>> Mary, I've heard conflicting reports
about whether this was a good meeting or
a bad meeting. Some people say at least
nothing bad happened in terms of some
sort of big blow up. On the flip side,
there wasn't even an affirmation of some
of the trues that we've seen uh when it
comes to tariffs and rare earths over
the past couple of months. What's your
take on this? Well, President Xi
stressed stability, but he wasted
absolutely no time in giving um the
American president the tongue lashing
over Taiwan, which means that uh what we
saw in China earlier this year, a sense
of confidence uh and growing power,
clearly was on display. Uh the
relationship overall was framed in
exactly the terms that Beijing likes to
use. The first is primacy. The USChina
relationship is the most important in
the world. Uh, is it the most important
to the United States? What about our
allies? Uh, win-win. President Xi always
likes to talk about the relationship in
win-win or mutually gainful terms. Yet,
the President Trump since 2017
uh has been talking about China, someone
who's ripped the United States off. So,
how is that going to be win-win? And
then lastly, President Xi likes to uh
describe the relationship as one of uh
partners, not rivals. Uh what about the
AI race? What about actions in the South
China Sea? How have we suddenly become
partners and these issues that have to
do with conflicting goals are suddenly
papered over? So I think rather than
just uh a visit that accomplished
nothing, uh this actually set us back in
terms of where we are with the Chinese.
>> In the meantime, what actually happened
with all the CEOs from the United States
who went over there? Do you have a sense
of whether they accomplished anything or
were involved in any of these meetings?
>> We don't have any sense of that. Um I
think you know Amory talked about how
the the chip sales uh there's been
crickets on that. So we really don't
know why they stopped to pick up Jensen
Wong in Alaska. Uh the other CEOs were
there I suppose to show their support
for the US China commercial relationship
which remains important and is a good
thing. Uh but as far as addressing uh
some of the problems these firms have
experienced in serving the Chinese uh
market, I think we've heard nothing.
Mary, what do you suppose the future is
of the political question around this
relationship domestically in the US? The
president did such a powerful job many
years ago of really highlighting how
damaged people and communities were in
this country from Chinese overcapacity
and the hollowing out of manufacturing
domestically in the US. That became a
rare bipartisan issue in Washington DC.
Is that a political priority anymore
going into the midterms later this year
and ultimately for the next general?
Well, I've always thought the harm was
real, but the the diagnosis was flawed
there. We know that um just attacking
China is not an answer to what the US
needs to be doing to heal itself. So, um
I think that now that the president has
decided that we need stability in this
relationship, that going in an
alternative route will actually cause
more harm than good. We need to turn at
home and say, "Okay, then what are we
doing at home to meet the challenges
that are before us? The same challenges
we had before."
>> Mary, appreciate it as always. Mary,
lovely there of [music] the Peterson
Institute. There's a lot of building to
be done. There's a lot of building being
done already.
>> Yeah, and this uh again, people talk
about the re-industrialization of the
United [music] States. Where does China
fit into that?
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Den Ives of Wedbush as tech IPOs
ramp up. Plus, yayra has your morning
mover as cerebras climbing higher once
again through yesterday. This morning,
down 2%.
Two-day winning streak on the S&P 500.
Back-to-back all-time highs on the S&P
on the Nasdaq pulling back this morning.
We're down by 1% on the S&P 500. On the
Nasdaq, down by 1.4. On the Russell,
negative 1 percentage point. In the bond
market, twos, [music] 10, 30s look like
this. had a warm CPI print earlier this
week. A smoking hot PPI print in the US
and [music] in Japan. Yields up across
the curve worldwide, not just state
side. Up by six basis points on a
10-year in the US, up by 13 in Japan on
a 30-year in the UK. Some real
leadership issues [music] in the UK.
Check it out. The 10-year up by 15 basis
points. 514
on guilts in the UK. I never thought I
would know so much about the intern
politics of a political race in the UK,
but evidently now I know about Andy
Burnham and Streer Streeting, excuse me,
I'm I'm getting it. Uh who might be
running against him and that Andy
Bernham needs to have a parliament seat
before he can become uh the prime
minister. So he resigned from being the
mayor. Look, all of this to say there's
a lot of uncertainty about who's going
to run in the United King, who's going
to run the United Kingdom, and what kind
of fiscal policy they're going to come
out [music] with because Andy Burnham, I
believe, has called himself part of the
soft left uh labeling himself as
something of a socialist. And there
seems to be a disbelief in the bond
markets that he [music] can resurrect
himself after saying that he thinks that
the bond markets have too much power.
So, at this point, there definitely is a
bit of bond vigilanteism, but it isn't
just isolated to the UK. [music] It is a
global phenomenon.
>> I don't know where this term is coming
from, the soft left. We can spend some
time on that later in the program, but
yes, certainly it's not just the UK.
[music] The UK's got its own very narrow
issues, but they're shared elsewhere as
well. Japan's got deficit problems. It's
now got inflation problems. All of this
is building. And what's interesting
about this moment in the bond market,
just take a step back and compare where
we were 10 years ago. When you and I
first met, we're talking about fixed
income. [music] The anchors around
global fixed income, JGBs, German Burns,
not anymore. Anchors away, yields up,
and that's been building now for several
years. And it makes it very very
difficult for politicians like that to
come out and say, "Yeah, we're not going
to be beholden to the bond market."
Well, I think the bond market's got
something to say about that
>> because it is global and you can't push
against [music] steam steamroller. We
were talking about how Japan there was
no inflation. Well, that's a different
story right now. And over in Germany,
there was not spending. Well, that's
[music] changed as well. There is a
feeling that if there were to be some
sort of economic downturn, yes, you
would see the haven bid into bonds, but
that could potentially be a problem
child because guess what every
government's going to do? They're going
to try to borrow more to fuel some sort
of growth at a time when deficits are
pretty high. This is a difficult time
where it's hard to understand exactly
what levers fiscal and monetary
authorities have to change this back to
a low rate regime. Once again,
>> good luck doing that. State side, the
10-year and 30-year closing at a new
high for the year throughout this week
and now two starting to break out above
four. The two-year the move at the front
end of the curve. Let's just isolate
that just for a moment. Got an incoming
Fed chair, Kevin Walsh. got a market
pushing [music] back a two-year above
the policy rate and a central banker put
in a position the president believes
he's going to make a push to cut
interest rates. This market's going to
[music] test that and you're starting to
feel that test this morning.
>> We've priced in a full rate hike come
April of next year. Not only is this
market saying we'll take your easing
bias and throw it in the trash along
with any kind of burner phone. Going
forward, it seems like they believe this
Federal Reserve will be pressured to
hike rates. Sebastian Page saying that
the two-month annualized inflation rate
would be closer to 5%. [music]
What Fed can arguably look at this say
if inflation is a choice this is what
we're choosing that's [music] not going
to fly for markets
>> 4.05% on twos so far this morning
counting you down to the open about 3
hours away with your morning movers
Yahara has more Yahara.
>> Hi John. The names that have run up the
most this year. here. The chip makers
are all under pressure amid this uh
market selloff. And it all started over
in Asia with names like Samsung and SKH
Heinix [music] sinking and it's spilling
over into the US with Nvidia, Broadcom
and Intel all lower and even Cerebras
falling [music] 3%. The newest AI chip
darling surged 68% yesterday in its
market debut. We have seen these sort of
pullbacks before in the chip sector. um
it's failed to materialize into
something broader, something [music]
bigger, which some are calling for.
We'll see uh if it's different today.
Also getting caught up in that sell-off
is Applied Material. Shares [music] are
down 3% after it delivered a massive
beat and a raise due to AI, which is
fueling [music] 30% growth in its chip
equipment business this year, helping to
push margins to their [music] widest
level in 25 years. Yet the market giving
it no credit for that. [music] And we
end on shares of Papa John's. They are
uh rising nearly 5% in the pre-market.
On a Reuters report that Earth Capital
is now working with the company's
largest US franchisee [music] on a
potential take private deal. This is a
company that has struggled with weaker
sales and tougher competition from
[music] the likes of Domino's and likely
your local pizza joint. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank for the update.
More from Yhara later this hour. On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping
failing to reach a breakthrough on the
Iran war. China calling for a reopening
of the Straight of Hormurs. President
Trump saying it's not a priority for the
US.
>> They need the straight more than we need
it open.
>> We don't need it.
>> We don't need it at all.
>> Fair enough.
>> We're doing it to help Israel and to
help Saudi Arabia and to help uh Qatar
and other countries. The president
adding China agreed not to supply Iran
with military equipment. Elsewhere, UK
guilt yields on track for their biggest
weekly increase going back to March.
Prime Minister Kama facing increasing
pressure to step down as fellow Labour
Party members prepare a formal challenge
to his leadership. And finally, Alphabet
going on a record-breaking debut bench.
The Google debt binge rather. The Google
parent company raising about $3.6 6
billion in the largest yen denominated
bond deal by a foreign company. Alphabet
tapping global debt markets for about 60
billion over the past four months.
>> Yeah. And this highlights how much
companies are shifting overseas as they
start to see a little bit of tiredness
from US investors. I don't want to
overplay this because still US investors
have seen the outperformance of
techreated debt over the past six months
and said we need to get a piece of that.
At the same time, they don't want to end
up with exhausted US investors that have
overly concentrated indexes and then
have to go create a market over in Japan
and over in Switzerland and over in the
UK. What's interesting to me is there
hasn't been this type of issuance from
tech investors over in the likes of
Japan or Switzerland or the European
continent ever. This is all of a sudden
skyrocketing the proportion of US tech
debt in those indexes, which again, how
can you diversify geographically? You
made this point yesterday. I thought was
really salient. How do you diversify
geographically when you're exposed to
the same thing everywhere you go?
>> You feel like you're just in the same
trade everywhere. South Korea, Japan,
whatever it is. As for Alphabet, I I
believe that number over the last four
months is bigger than anything they've
issued in the history of the company
before that. That's a major switch. We
mentioned this with Sebastian. I think
this is going to be an important theme
for the next 12 months or so. We've gone
from asset scarcity to abundance. These
companies weren't building. Now they're
building masses upon masses of things
across this country and elsewhere. Now
let's just isolate it to the tax sector.
They were buying back a lot of equity,
massive buybacks and not issuing a lot
of debt. Now things are starting to
change. It's the opposite now. They're
buying back less and now they're issuing
more. And on top of that, what will you
see for IPOs? You're going to see more
IPOs in the year ahead now from the
likes of SpaceX, from Anthropic, from
OpenAI. I remember coming out of the
pandemic and people saying things like
there was an asset scarcity. There was a
scarcity of good assets. They were
getting bid up by a lot of money and now
you're getting issued a lot of paper in
lots of different places in the next 12
months. The forces are changing and
changing quickly.
>> Yeah. The one offset to that is that the
bookings have been accelerating faster
than the growth and debt and the
than the pace of the buildout of some of
this infrastructure until now. And
you've seen that from Microsoft. You've
seen that from Meta. any kind of miss on
the pace of bookings. The bar is that
that much higher for it to exceed the
increase in spending. And if it doesn't,
well, those shares are going to get
hammered. Again, it goes to the point of
how much are these becoming
[clears throat] increasingly utilities
versus say some of the growth stocks
that they used to be. That doesn't seem
to be on the radar, at least in
performance, on a number of the big
high-f flyers.
>> The headline act of the last 24 hours.
Cerebras delivering the best opening day
since 2000. The stock jumping 68% after
raising 5.5 billion in the year's
largest IPO. The AI chip maker setting
the tone for a year of blockbuster
public offerings including SpaceX,
OpenAI and Anthropic. Dan Ives of
Wedbush writing, "Cerebrus is a
watershed moment for the tech sector.
The appetite for AI exposed companies
are high in the market." Dan joins us
now for more. Dan, for an IPO of that
size of more than 4 billion, that is the
best performance we've seen on a single
day going back to 2000. Does it feel
throy or is this a different moment?
>> Look, it doesn't. I mean, you know,
we've talked about it a lot. I mean this
is an AI revolution and when it comes to
the chip trade that's going to continue
to move higher because demand to supply
and we've talked about from you know
Nvidia 10 to one and that ripple effect
is across the board from inference to
infrastructure and that's what investors
are focused on around the world and this
is something like you said it's it's
really just the appetizer to what's
going to be as we go into SpaceX open AI
anthropic and others in terms of tech
>> you are the bull on steroids. Dan, I
think you'll be comfortable with that
particular description of your approach
to this market. When do you start to get
nervous about what's happening here?
>> Look, and I I get the the sort of view.
To me, it's if I was sitting in an
office building and just looking at a
spreadsheet, okay, then maybe that
that's how you could sort of by the
bears, that's how they're looking at it.
I go look at my when I was in Asia just
a few weeks ago, demand the supplies
accelerated 20%. quarter of a quarter.
So when I see companies if they start to
slow down their pace of spending that's
where I start to get negative but to
some extent just continues to increase
and I think in this nine ining game
baseball game third inning one out man
on second
>> at this point Dan Cerebrus is a bit
different than open AAI or anthropic
given the fact that it produces chips
which it doesn't produce CPUs or GPUs.
Last night I was learning about wafers
and wafer system engines which is
essentially the full page size chip that
they sell. How much are we seeing a very
different type of response in markets to
the IPO of Cerebrris that can't really
foreshadow what we could see with some
of the big IPOs coming later this year?
>> Sure. It's a great point. I mean look
everyone you can't put them all in the
same bucket but when it comes to
inferencing and what we see in terms of
the overall demand for the trillions of
dollars spent you need the power and
when it comes to the chips that right
now on the supply chain it's not just
about Nvidia we've talked about chip
rally we still think 15 20% higher at
least from AMD you've seen it go out to
Intel and obviously you've seen the
reaction here but I think it just speaks
to the second third fourth derivatives
around the AI I trade I and that's our
view and I think software is included
there. It's why I believe we'll be
looking at NASDAQ 30,000 over the next 6
to9 months that's driven not just by big
tech by the second third fourth
derivatives of what's going on this
revolution.
>> One thing people have noted Dan is that
they're going to be winners and losers.
You've talked about that as well. I
think about some of the IPOs that are in
deck and then some of the negative press
around one name in particular, OpenAI
now in news with respect to a breakdown
in the relationship with Apple. Are you
getting a little more nervous that
they're losing their thunder to
Anthropic and that even with overall
things really accelerating that will be
one loser potentially in the
notsodistant future?
>> Yeah, look, right now I mean the the
narrative is a bit negative, but I think
that's actually uh much different than
the reality. I I think they're going to
be one of the core winners when it comes
to enterprise. They've obviously gone
through a lot of changes relative to
Microsoft and relative to some of these
deals. You see the Apple news, the must
trial. So, we're going through one of
those periods. But when I think about
winners over the long term, I mean,
they're they're at the centerpiece. And
even though Anthropic right now clearly
the best model and what they've done is
almost historical, I think you cannot
paint these companies with a brush just
based on near-term news. This is just
the beginning and open AI is going to be
one of the foundations of the AI
revolution.
>> Hey Dan, it's got to catch up as always.
What a move in yesterday's session. Dan
I there bush happening right now on Air
Force One. The president just engaging
with reporters getting some headlines
from that particular conversation saying
she and I agree on trade very much. He
didn't ask China for favors when it
comes to Iran. He goes on to say on
Taiwan we'll make a determination about
arms sales to Taiwan. We think we'll be
fine on the issue of Taiwan.
>> That's probably not enough detail to
give people any sense of exactly uh
what's going on. That could mean a
couple of things including that that was
part of the discussions and that that
could be revisited. There already have
been arm sales that have been promised
to Taiwan. Will the US go through with
those uh those particular transactions?
>> We'll try and get you some more on this.
The president on Air Force One making
his way back to the United States. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Well, as President Trump
departs China. Another world leader is
coming. [music] The South China Morning
Post reporting Russian President
Vladimir Putin will visit Beijing next
Wednesday. This will be Putin's first
trip abroad this year. Meanwhile, we are
seeing shares of Boeing up falling just
slightly as investors [music] react with
some disappointment to President Trump's
announcement that China agreed to buy
200 Boeing jets in a multi-billion
[music] dollar deal. Bloomberg
Intelligence reports the market had been
expecting an order of 300 aircraft or
more. And Apple and OpenAI's partnership
is on the rock. source is telling us
here on at Bloomberg the AI startup
[music] is exploring possible legal
actions after not seeing the expected
benefits from its deal. [music] No final
decision has been made. That's your
Bloomberg for you. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
[music] the UK's leadership revolt.
>> We are stuck in a in a world of
governments that don't focus enough on
on growth. It's all going to be quite
drawn out and if we got to an end
conclusion, we would still have a Labor
government that at the moment is fixated
on [music] lots of things that don't
include growing the economy more
quickly.
>> We'll have that conversation in just a
moment with Jayati Barawaj [music] of TD
Securities live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
happening right now on Air Force One.
The president conducting a conversation
with reporters, getting a readout of
that. Just some headlines dropping
across the Bloomberg terminal. Going to
share some more of these headlines with
you. What's interesting here is what the
president is telling us wasn't discussed
with the Chinese. [music] We didn't
discuss tariffs with China. We didn't
talk about the H200 [music] chip coming
out of Nvidia that we were talking about
through this week. Didn't discuss that
either. It's curious that they didn't
talk about tariffs. It seems almost
difficult [music] to believe that that
didn't come up in conversations.
>> And it checks out with some of the
commentary about some of the purchase
[music] commitments from President uh
from from Xihinping to the United
States, whether it's GE engines or
whether it's [music] soybeans. But what
President Trump was saying, they talked
about about Taiwan is sure to raise a
lot of eyebrows, saying that he [music]
doesn't want to see a fight over Taiwan.
That that would be a strong
confrontation. and we'll see what we're
going to do when it comes to arm sales.
>> We'll come back to these headlines
throughout this morning. Equities this
morning down by8% on the S&P, [music]
negative by more than 1% on the NASDAQ.
Some weight on the tape. Born in the
bond market this morning. Yields up
across the curve, not just state side,
but in the UK by a whole lot more. Check
out the UK. [music] The UK up by double
digits on a session. The 10-year right
now up by 134 basis points. 513 on 10.
Under surveance this morning, the UK's
leadership revolt.
>> We are stuck in a in a world of
governments that don't focus enough on
on [music] growth. It's all going to be
quite drawn out. And if we got to an end
conclusion, we would still have a Labor
government that at the moment is fixated
on lots of things that don't include
growing the economy more quickly. We
don't look like escaping this until
someone comes in and says we need more
growth.
>> So, here's the latest this morning in UK
markets. Yields up. The pound nearing
its worst week since 24. A potential
challenge from Manchester Mayor Andy
Burnham casting down on Prime Minister K
Starmmer's political future. Joining us
now from Down Street, Bloomberg's Lizzy
Burden. Lizzie, just describe the
characters involved and set the stage
for the next couple of weeks in British
politics.
>> Well, no formal challenge has been made
yet, John, but Andy Burnham taking the
first step to topple Karma here. He is
known as the king of the north. Very
popular as Greater Manchester Mayor.
He's polyarket odds favorite to replace
Stara. He's the only senior UK
politician who polls positively among
voters according to Yuggov, a polling
organization.
And yes, he's got past the first step.
There is a seat opening up for him to
stand in. But there are so many hurdles
in the way. He's still got to be
approved by Labour's National Executive
Committee. He's got to win this
bi-election and reform are going to
throw the kitchen sink at this election.
It was a seat where they had the high
the sixth highest vote share across the
country back in 2024. But apparently
Bernham wants to stand against reform so
that he can say I beat Nigel Farage in a
bi-election. I can beat him in a general
election. If he does manage to win the
bi-election, then he's got to have 81
Labour MPs back him in a leadership to
get to a leadership contest and then
he'd likely be standing against the
former number two Angela Raina and maybe
the former health secretary Wes
Streeting. Although curiously, notably
in just the past few minutes, John
Wesing has posted on X that the best
Andy Bernham has the best chance of
winning this bi-election. We need our
best players on the pitch. There's no
doubt Andy Burnham is one of them. So,
keeping his cards uh close to his chest
in the sense that he isn't challenging
Star yet. He's actually backing Burnham
in this bi-election.
>> Lizzie, appreciate the update. Lizzie
Burden there covering the UK politics
for us. You see it playing out pretty
clearly in UK assets. The future is
uncertain. It's unclear as to whether
Andy Bernham even wins the bi-election.
There's a couple of hurdles to get
through before we even talk about taking
over from Karma. That said, the longer
this goes on, the more uncertainty there
is around the fiscal backdrop of the UK
and that it's not helping either the
bond picture or frankly the currency.
>> Here's the tape from Jati Badawatch of
TD Securities writing the following. We
expect the pound to remain under
pressure versus the US dollar and the
euro as political friction plays out in
the UK. Jati joins us now for more.
Jaty, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What is specifically a UK problem right
now? Because we see global bond yields
rising, but in the UK much more so.
What's specific about the UK issues? Um,
you know, as we were just discussing,
it's clearly the political risk premier
playing out in there, especially after
Burnham yesterday because there's a
massive risk premier associated with
him. He's clearly very popular, but he's
popular because he's talking about a lot
of fiscal easing policies. He talks
about housing projects, infrastructure
projects, social spending, you know,
public uh welfare programs, all of them
cost money, which is something that
guilt markets do not like. Given that
UK's debt to GDP is surprisingly very
high from the economy, that usually
raises concern if the UK can balloon up
that deficit given their potential
growth is, let's say, lower than the US
economy. So that is what's weighing on
the pound and gills right now.
>> How much is the US unique in terms of
avoiding this type of dynamic? we've
seen sort of uh little signs around the
margins that different types of policies
could unleash this type of reaction. Do
you see that in the cards in terms of
some sort of Fed reaction to higher
inflation leading to a response in the
dollar?
Um so that's a very good question
because I think the US up until let's
say 2025 would not trade like uh an
emerging market which the UK is which is
where even if there were any fiscal
concerns in the US markets would just
ignore it off and then treasuries were a
lot more resilient since the last one
and a half year a lot of things have
changed and you have seen a little bit
of signs of that emerging market trading
behavior in the US and the US dollar as
well which is where around the one big
beautiful bill treasuries did start
getting a little bit of concern. Uh so
that's something very different from the
last year. Even right now in the
conflict, you can see that the dollar is
really struggling to rally. US
treasuries, you know, are selling off.
There's so much inflation concern. But
the broad dollar as a whole is really
struggling to meaningfully rally and
behave like the safe haven it was. Even
if you go back to 2022, which is when we
had the last big oil price shock, the
dollar massively rallied in that year.
If you look at how it is trading right
now, it's very mediocre compared to
that.
>> How much is this a story about policy
and how much is this a story about the
debt overhang in developed markets that
is dwarfing some emerging markets and
leading frankly to a more haven type
trading in a number of emerging
currencies versus the developed ones?
>> Uh I think uh I wouldn't say that's the
the debt concern in the US is not the
main driver. I think the main driver has
been that the US instead of being like
shielded from the global shocks of the
world has now become the driving
emanating source of it thanks to US
policy. There's so much uncertainty
coming from the US instead of the US
being shielded from the global shocks. I
think that has led to a big perception
shift around people just blindly pulling
money into US assets and then also doing
it in the US dollar. So we've seen
marginal allocation of global wallets
now go to equities outside the US to
global commodities. That's a big shift
and clearly the the deficit profile I
think has been marginal chips in the
armor. You've not seen one big move in
Treasury suddenly but there's been clear
chips in the US armor over the last year
and a half.
>> You're at no cuts for this year now,
right? Over at the Federal Reserve.
>> That's a change from you guys.
>> Yes, that is what changed.
>> I honestly the incoming data in the US
has been more resilient. You know the
labor market side of the story is
staying stable. Unemployment rate rate
stays stable with that inflation has
clearly started surprising to the
upside. The PPI report recently was a
big surprise to the upside. And
interestingly while you're seeing that
uh in and energy as you should some of
the core services side also remain
resilient. So that forms a picture where
the Fed should not be in a hurry to ease
interest rates again. Clearly in the
last Fed meeting, the bias had already
started to shift because there was a
hawkish descent which had not been noted
in quite some time. With the energy
price shock and the fact that the US
economy remains resilient, the Fed
should not be in a hurry to ease
interest rates which I'm sure will be a
problem for Wor given uh the person who
appointed him wants him to do.
>> You're not alone on that [music] call
either. That list is getting longer and
longer. Ji, it's good to see you. Thank
you. Ji Balar of TD Securities. Coming
up next, Alistister Pinda of HSBC, Henry
Trese of Vader Partners, Lorraine
Hutchinson of Bank for America, Sebach
Jappa of Sockgen. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance just around
[music] the corner.
The labor market is still in this
balanced environment, whereas inflation
is moving away from the 2% target. It's
a pretty good economy, but that doesn't
mean there's not tensions. [music]
>> For the vast majority of this Federal
Reserve, just doing nothing is
tightening.
>> The case for a rate cut [music] here
gets tougher and tougher. There's a
greater probability priced in of a hike.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
[music] And your scores look like this.
Here's the price action this Friday
morning. We're negative by 0.8%. We've
had quite a run. We were poised for a
[music] seventh consecutive weekly gain
on the S&P 500. This morning, we take a
bite out of that rally on the NASDAQ
down by 14 percentage points. Some of
the nervousness and [music] fixed
income. Yields up across the curve. Twos
north of 4% 10 through 450. Your tenure
this morning up five basis points. Yeah,
[music] Lori Calvina of RBC Capital said
earlier this morning that when we start
getting to about 5% all of a sudden
[music] it's riskoff completely and it
really throws away some of the bull
cases. That said, there's one two punch
here. On one hand, you've got inflation
[music] that seems to be resurgent
around the world, yields going higher.
On the other hand, people are getting a
little nervous after the likes of Nvidia
rallied 20% in the past seven trading
sessions, [music]
adding $900 billion of value to their
market capitalization. When they add uh
a Bergkshire Hathaway to their valuation
in [music] seven trading days, people
start to say maybe this is getting a
little heady.
>> Catching a flight to China is worth
hundred billion dollars in market cap.
>> I mean, [music] clearly
>> more than 100 billion
>> more. I mean, it's a pretty it's a
pretty lucrative plane trip.
>> That's the tech move. We'll talk lots
about that throughout this morning.
Also, [music] this bond move, the energy
story, really hot PPI coming out of
Japan, the leadership issues [music] in
the UK, the uncertainty, the lack of
clarity around the reaction function of
an incoming Fed share. [music] This is
really important. Kevin Walsh is getting
an early test from the bond market, the
yield on the 2-year just to isolate that
point of the curve, trading above the
policy rate at the Federal Reserve,
starting [music] to think more and more
about the risk, maybe not the base case,
but the risk of a rate hike. It is
[music] feasible to have an easing bias
when you have disinflation. When you
have reaceleration of inflation, it
becomes a very different proposition.
And reaceleration and inflation led by a
myriad of different factors. This isn't
just energy. When you strip out energy
and food, [music] you still see
inflation running hot tied in part to
the hyperscaler spending and other
materials and mining uh equipment. So,
you're looking at all of this and you're
saying, "What happens if the Fed [music]
doesn't hike rates?" Well, that's the
long end of the yield curve. And oh, by
the way, this is global. As you've
mentioned before, there aren't sort of
the lynch pins [music] of Japanese bonds
at 0% with them owning the market. You
take a step back, we have ended the zero
rate regime, and we are so far away from
that. And how much are monetary policy
makers prepared to enter [music] a
stagflationary type of type of feel?
>> Enter geopolitics. Let's talk about
this. The president having a little
gaggle on Air Force One right now. A
conversation with reporters getting more
and more headlines from this. Lots on
Taiwan. We'll spend some time on that.
But this just crossed on Iran on
enriched material if we don't get the
nuclear dust will go in. The president
of the United States just moments
[music] ago.
>> Yeah. One thing after another that's
giving people the jitters that maybe the
ceasefire is irrevocably broken or at
least that we seem to be entering
[music] a more fraught scenario. This
also comes with the president saying
that we don't need the street of Hermuz.
Also saying that they've been militarily
uh defeated already. But still there's
that issue of the street of Hermuz. Very
mixed [music] messages coming from the
president. Either way, the bar for re
escalation seems to have gotten a lot
lower, especially with no deliverables
from this meeting in China.
>> And Marie still in Beijing in China.
We'll catch up with her in about 10
[music] minutes time on those particular
comments coming from the president. They
continue. Those headlines keep dropping
across the Bloomberg crude right now.
Brent around 108, WTI around 103. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with
Alistister [music] Pinda of HSBC with
stocks under pressure from higher bond
yields. 10 trades of Vader partners as
President Donald Trump concludes his
meetings in China as a badger Japper of
Sockje with Kevin War set to take over
the top of the Fed. We begin this out
with stocks pulling back from record
highs as bond yields push higher.
Alistister Pendra of HSBC still bullish
writing we revise our year-end price
target on the S&P to 7650 on we've heard
this so many times earnings strength but
we could see it breaching 8K. Alistister
joins us now for more. Alistister, good
morning. Good to see you. seen so many
upgrades to price targets. Can you just
take a step back before we get into all
of the details? How stellar, impressive
has this earning season been?
>> It's been amazing. I mean, you know, to
to put it into context, we're getting,
you know, 27% uh earnings growth for the
S&P 500 uh this year. That's going to be
it strongest really since postco. The
number of companies that are beating has
also, you know, basically been since uh
postco highs. And I think the really
interesting aspect here, this is just
not just a tech or mag 7 story. strip
out tech and Max 7, you're still getting
13 14% earnings growth from these
companies. Again, very resilient, much
higher than expectations. So, it's the
breadth of earnings, uh, which has been
the most surprising to us. But again,
you know, what continues to drive the
market higher here is the tech and the
AI narrative.
>> There's a phrase that I'm going to
borrow from a colleague of yours at
HSBC, danger zone. M
>> talks about the danger zone. Are we in
the danger zone in the bond market?
>> We are. We're in the danger zone. This
is the trade-off now for markets which
as soon as we get uh you know the US
10-year bond yield pushing above one and
a half% the market's going to have to
weigh the you know the challenge between
higher bond yield squeezing valuations
and the earnings numbers which have been
so phenomenal but it is a concern and
that is the downside risk here that if
we don't get oil coming down if we don't
see clear signs of deescalation in the
Middle East and you know progress
towards opening the straight of Hammuz
if this continues through uh June July
um you know the downside starts becoming
more apparent for the S&P 500 here.
>> So, just taking your advice, I'm looking
right now at a 10-year yield of 4.53%
and I'm ready to hit sell. Why shouldn't
I, right? I mean, if we're in the danger
zone, why is that not the logical
response?
>> Because our view is that our base case
is that there will be some normalization
of the straight of her in in the next
month or so. I know our view is that oil
will start to creep back down towards
the end of the year and that should
start to put some of the pressure off
bond yields. So, you know, the base case
here is that the market is already
pricing in a pretty panicky kind of
scenario and we don't think we're there
just yet. I think that, you know, what
makes us more concerned is again if this
persists throughout the summer and, you
know, from an economic perspective, a
good way to frame it is that, uh, you
know, US consumers have received almost
$50 billion in tax refunds this year.
Um, you know, more so than than 2025. Um
the cost of oil at $100 a barrel is $14
billion every month. So back of the
envelope math is like if we continue to
get oil at 100 until June, July, that to
me is when things start to turn a lot
more negative. The impact on the US
consumer, the impact on the US economy
starts to turn more negative and that's
when we might see more serious earnings
downgrades.
>> One of the biggest debates right now
seems to be putting Paul Quincy versus
Sebastian Page. Paul Quincy try to
diversify away from AI and different
geographies but also different types of
companies. Seb really doubling down
saying ultimately he wants to get more
into AI and more into the US
specifically. Where do you sit on the
whole diversification issue?
>> I mean in in a global context we're
overweight emerging markets and we're
overweight US. So we kind of like a bit
of both. In the emerging market side
though we're still playing you know tech
where we're overweight Taiwan. We're
also overweight materials in LATAM which
benefit by the way from all of this AI
capex spend from higher copper demand uh
higher aluminium demand. So you know I
I'm actually leaning into AI almost
everywhere. I think what we are really
focused on though in a global context is
two things. One is AI adoption. I think
that's how you diversify going to the
banks which are clearly using AI seeing
productivity benefits from this. Uh and
the other theme as well is trying to
avoid these stocks which are going to be
disrupted by AI. So again you know some
of these sectors like SAS etc where we
think there's going to be an overhang
whether it's true or not I think it's
hard to disprove in this current
environment but we want to avoid the
areas which we think there's going to be
fears around disruption. So in the kind
of diversifications perspective, I'm
fine diversifying out of the tech. But
when we go into the, you know, Xtech
names, I still want to be looking into
the areas that get the biggest, you
know, productivity gains uh from AI
adoption.
>> When I hear EM, I always smile because
it doesn't mean what it used to mean.
It's now two countries, three names
making up a quarter of the index. The
Msei EM index. Taiwan Semiconductors
14%, a little bit more than that.
Samsung, it's about 6% of the index. SK
Highex is a little more than 4% of the
index. We're reducing things down to
just a handful of names. I just got this
note from CIBC Chris Harvey. I'm sure
you know him. Chris said this. By our
calculation, this is SPX. SPX
attribution. Tech and communication
services have accounted for 90% of the
returns of SPX since the end of Jan
until yesterday. On an individual basis,
nine names accounted for roughly 90% of
the return over that period until
yesterday with Nvidia responsible for 20
to 25% of the overall return. Do you
think that's a problem? Is that
necessarily a problem? I mean, you know,
I do laugh about this conversation about
concentration because everyone said it's
a risk. I'm like, well, it's a risk in
both ways, downside and upside. If you
think that this concentration, the names
that are driving, uh, you know, the
upside here are going to continue to
outperform, that's great. And so, you
take the EM story, and it's kind of
funny because you're saying that, you
know, EM is not what it used to be. I
would disagree a little bit. What was EM
in 2000 to 2010? It was a commodity
cycle. Well, DRAM and semiconductors are
the commodity of the AI era.
So, is it not just that we're in a
different kind of commodity play here
for emerging markets? And I'm totally
bullish on that. And so, I'm totally
leaning into this. If I think there's
going to be more capex from the
hyperscalers, $150 billion in capex
estimates just being added for 2027 and
2028, 20% of that goes to the Korean
memory names. I'm leaning into this. So,
I don't have any issue, particularly
when, you know, the Korean stocks and
the Korean memory names trade on six
times earnings. To me, it feels like a
bit of no-brainer to go into that.
>> As prices go up of those commodities,
those new commodities, how elastic is
that demand for these particular goods?
>> I mean, I mean, it's there's almost it's
completely priced inelastic. I mean,
you're seeing uh you know, the the
memory name is basically saying they're
entering into three to five year
long-term agreements with the
hyperscalers because there's so much
demand for it right now. And why that's
so important is because it reduces the,
you know, price volatility and it gives
us much more earnings visibility than
we've ever had before. three to five
years of, you know, the big hyperscalers
saying, "Hey, we're going to take out
all of your supply." To me, that is is a
very bullish narrative here.
>> Alistister, good to see you. I
appreciate the interesting stuff. Great
response. Alistister Pinder there of
HSBC on the insatiable demand for some
of these goods in tech right now.
>> And we've seen it in terms of pricing
power. I mean, just how elastic is it?
Pretty inelastic it seems like. And
they're being given a long rope when it
comes to debt investors that are
investing in some of these issues. I
think one of the skepticisms here is we
don't know what we're building toward.
We don't know the end point. When is it
going to be enough AI? When are we going
to reach some sort of equilibrium where
things stop moving at such a rapid pace?
We have to see keep spending this much
on infrastructure. That's one overhang.
I think that's leading to a little bit
of anxiety
>> from capacity constrained to over
constrained and that's the bus, right?
That's the over capacity. That's the
bus.
>> Yeah. Or just what does the world look
like? I mean, not to go all existential,
but these are the questions that a lot
of people say. What is the ultimate
existence of humans in this AI world? I
know this sounds fiction. No, but this
is actually I mean I don't mean in a
negative way. I mean truly, you know,
where do they fit in in the world that's
controlled by, you know,
>> robots and AI on the NASDAQ right now
down by 1.2% on the NASDAQ 100. It was
going so well on the S&P 500 down by
0.9. With an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief, Yahara has
more. Hey [music] yhara.
>> Hi John. An Indian flag ship sinking in
the straight of Hormuz this week after
coming under attack near the coast of
Oman. The Wall Street Journal reporting
India's foreign ministry says Omania
authorities rescued all the crew after
the attack without saying who was behind
it. The US House narrowly rejecting an
effort to stop the war in Iran and
remove US troops [music] from the
region. President Trump saying
hostilities officially ended at the
60day mark, a declaration that could
help the administration [music] avoid
seeking congressional approval for its
operation.
And US trade representative Jameson
Greer expects the US and China to
restore ties for agricultural products.
Greer telling our own Anie Hordern in
Beijing that a new trade deal could open
the door for US businesses. And we
expect to also see an agreement for uh
doubledigit billion purchases of a over
the next three years per year coming out
of this visit. And that's more general.
That's that's aggregate. That's not just
soybeans. That's that's everything else.
>> Greer also confirming the two countries
will establish a board of trade to
oversee a cut down [music] on $30
billion worth of tariffs on guns. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, tariffs on the
back burner. President Xi's an
incredible guy. Got along made a lot of
great trade deals. They're paying
tariffs. They're paying substantial
tariffs, but we didn't discuss it. Up
next, we'll catch up with Amarie plus
Henrietta Trader Partners from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music] Just a bit softer here. We're
down by 0.9 on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ 100, down by 1.25. Record highs
coming into Friday. Heading towards a
decent, robust week of gains. But
running into this [music] this in the
bond market Tuesday's 1030s yields
creeping higher state side up by five
basis points on [music] 10 through 450
approaching 5.1 on a 30-year jitters in
the UK around the leadership race. Much
bigger moves there but also big moves
[music] in Japan as well. The backdrop
globally if all these countries have got
anything in common right now it's higher
energy prices and limited [music] fiscal
space. Yeah, right now it seems like
when people see higher PPI prices and
significantly higher, I think it's fair
to [music] say these are huge beats. Uh
when it comes to some of the inflation
rates in the United States and over in
Japan, people are saying, "What's the
offset to this?" Probably there will be
the desire to have more fiscal spending
even though there isn't necessarily the
[music] headroom for it.
>> Elsewhere, the summit wrapping up
between the US leader and the Chinese
leader. The President Donald Trump
making his way back to the US on Air
Force One, engaging with reporters just
moments ago. Check out some of these
comments. Under surveillance this
morning, tariffs on the back burner.
>> President Xi's an incredible guy. Got a
long made a lot of great trade deals,
including over 200 planes for Boeing
with a promise of 750 planes. We didn't
discuss tariffs. I mean, they're paying
tariffs. They're paying substantial
tariffs, but we didn't discuss it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Terrorists failing to make the agenda
[music] during a summit between
President Donald Trump and Chinese
leader Xi Jinping. President Trump
offering more details of the talks as he
returns to Washington from Beijing.
Amarie has more. Amarie, some intriguing
comments on a range of issues. Let's
start with Taiwan. What did you make of
what the president had to say in the
last hour?
Well, the president definitely wanted to
make sure he was socializing the issue
of Taiwan in a very delicate manner, but
he really pulled back the curtain and
brought reporters into the discussions.
He said that of course it came up um he
was asked about the six asurances of
from President Ronald Reagan in 1982
that you would not consult China in in
regards to arm sales to Taiwan. He said,
you know, 1982 was a long way away. She
wanted to talk about what am I supposed
to do? Not engage. And he said though
when he was asked would the United
States defend Taiwan and he said he's
the only person meeting him President
Donald Trump that knows that and he said
he was asked about it today as well by
Xi Jinping. Xi Jinping asked him would
you defend Taiwan and he said he will in
the coming days make a decision about
the arm sales that $14 billion package
that's been in the docket that was not
approved before this trip. He said he'll
be making that decision in the coming
days. So that is something we should be
on the lookout for. But he said, you
know who wants a war right now, 9,500
miles away.
>> Amarie, the Chinese leader is a
dictator.
The US leader is accountable to the
electorate in the US and in Washington
DC. I imagine there's members of
Congress who will have their own
thoughts about what should happen here.
What is the president going to arrive
back to in Washington given this
exchange?
Well, Jonathan, before the president
left Washington for this trip, he got
letters a letter from a number of
senators, Democrats and Republicans,
that wanted him to move ahead quickly on
the $14 billion package that's waiting
in the wings. When it comes to the arm
sale to Taiwan, we should note it is not
unprecedented for former presidents as
well to not immediately clear an arms
package ahead of a big trip with the
Chinese leader. You don't want to really
mess with the imbalance of how this trip
potentially some of the deliverables you
want to get out of this trip. It's a
very sensitive delicate issue. So that
is not unprecedented. What is going to
be interesting as you note is what kind
of pressure the president gets when he
lands in Washington DC based off this
exchange given the fact that clearly Xi
Jinping made Taiwan their red line. I go
back to what happened yesterday. The
meeting wasn't even over. And what we
had from the Chinese readout was that
Taiwan needs to be handled appropriately
and if mishandled that could lead to
conflict in a dangerous situation
between Washington and Beijing.
>> Amarie with the latest in Beijing.
Amarie, thanks for your work over the
past week or so. Just fantastic. Henry
Trace of Vader Partners joins us around
the table here in New York. Henrietta,
good morning.
>> Great to be here, guys.
>> How does Congress respond to what we've
just heard?
>> Congress is not going to take this
happily. Um, there are so many more
China hawks that still exist in both the
House and the Senate side. And their
first reaction to this China summit is
going to be, why are we talking about
Taiwan? We should be talking about
soybeans. We should be talking about
investments. There are tariffs across
$350 billion worth of goods and instead
we're talking about arm sales to Taiwan,
which is very much China leading the
direction of the conversation, leading
this overall meeting. And that's going
to be the core takeaway for members.
What do you make of the trade agreements
that were reached in terms of the 200
Boeing planes versus the initially
believed 500 planes and some of the
agricultural purchases? How are those
stacking up uh in the United States?
>> Well, I really want to see the details
on the soybean side. I think it's really
critical, especially for farmers who saw
a 46% increase in bankruptcies in 2025,
that they have under President Trump
from his first term to his second term,
seen major shifts in soy purchases.
China has cut us off. The deal that
Ambassador Lighheiser reached in 2020
when they had their first major trade
agreement was for 142 million tons of
soy over two years. The deal that
Secretary Bessant reached last year was
for 87 million tons of soy over four
years. That's a 69% drop. And now here
we don't have any details of any soy
purchases. The farmers are in a bad way
and that's a problem for Republicans
across the board.
>> The message coming out of these meetings
is that the priority is some of these
purchase agreements, right? that the
idea is to get engines and to get planes
and to get soybeans. It isn't
necessarily on having a hard stance with
Taiwan staking a geopolitical place in
the world uh versus China. Is that where
things are shifting among the populace
in the United States?
>> I'm glad you asked. I look at this data
all the time to see if there's a chance
that Americans care about foreign
policy. It does not register on
Americans radar. They care about
inflation, prices, the economy, and then
way down at like 11th, anything foreign
policy related. They do not concern
themselves with Taiwan. That is a core
issue, as you point out, John, with the
members of Congress and China hawks and
defense hawks. But it doesn't register
on an American public that feels very
pessimistic about their finances, about
their job prospects, and is overall
anxious.
>> Local issues. I see this play out in the
UK as well. When you see particular
leaders talk about these big global
issues, foreign leaders talking about
the US leader, I don't think in the UK
for instance, UK is a great example of
this. By the way, when you start moaning
about what's happening abroad and the
mistakes other leaders are making
internationally, people feel ignored at
home because they want their local
issues taken care of. Are we going to
take care of those issues going into the
midterm? Are we going to see more
specities when it comes to those kind of
things? I think it's important to look
at the bills that are being introduced
as you point out and I think there's two
that I would highlight for the average
American. One is how long is this war
going to go on? How long are gas prices
going to be so elevated? And there is a
war powers resolution that allows the
president to perpetuate the war through
September 1st. That is the shortest
duration authorization of military force
that I've seen. There's other proposals
out there for 12 months. And then the
second piece is the gas tax holiday. And
the gas tax holiday does not have enough
support to pass, but it's informative to
look at the dates associated with it and
how long lawmakers think that gas prices
are going to be high for the bill that
was introduced this week by a Republican
in the House last through December 15th.
They are expecting this to hap to go on
for a long while.
>> This is the federal gas holiday. What
are they doing at the state level to
achieve something similar?
>> Different states are doing different
things and in some cases they have a
higher gas tax so it's helpful. Um
Georgia for instance has a 33 cent gas
tax. they've already suspended theirs.
Oftentimes, states are doing 30, 60,
90day suspensions. Um, but the federal
level vote the votes aren't there at the
federal level. So, the president would
have to act the executive order, which
most other administrations have
determined they cannot.
>> Just to bring it full circle, at what
point does Taiwan become a local issue
when it has to do with chips? I mean,
it's one thing to say this is just a
geopolitical issue. It's another thing
when suddenly this becomes a massive
market issue and frankly every
electronic product issue that everybody
has in this country. At what point is
that connection drawn?
>> Well, I mean, I think the PPI data
really tells you that there's going to
be those costs um that cycle through and
it, you know, whether it's the straight
or whether it's Taiwan that's in your
refrigerator that's in your telephone,
you know, you're going to need to buy
all those things and costs for there
from PPI data being released. It's a 60
to 90day lag before it starts hitting
consumers. So, it's coming for the
American public. Maybe they won't
recognize that it's due to Taiwan or
maybe even the strait, but they'll feel
the pain and it'll continue to register
in the inflation data.
>> Henrietta, it's good to see you as
always. Thank you, Henrietta Trees,
Evadera Partners. I'm sure they're able
to draw the dots. It's pretty obvious.
The question they're asking is why you
there and convincing the American public
that you should be there is the hardest
task right now,
>> especially because reserves are down,
right? I mean, how much have the
munitions been depleted as a result of
some of what's been going on in Iran?
questions of different troops that have
been deployed for months and months and
months on the sea. Where is the
willingness, especially with the cost
already rising for that military
incursion? Again, questions that people
want to know. How much did Xiinping take
advantage of that fact?
>> It gets difficult to offset that at the
federal level, not just in the US, but
in places like the UK, across Europe, in
Germany to issue more debt. When you see
the push back coming from the debt
market at the same time, it's almost
like a perfect storm right now in fixed
income pushing back. Well, Torstson made
this point yesterday. I thought it was
really important, which is if there is
another economic downturn, where is the
ammunition going to come from on the
fiscal side? And how much are bonds
going to act as a haven as they have in
the past if there is this push [music]
pill between fiscal stimulus, inflation,
and so much debt slashing around?
>> Well, thank goodness we're done with the
Hans virus now, right?
>> Well,
>> we're done with that. [music] We moved
on.
>> We we have although there was a story
about how just natural sickness is
actually on the rise on [music]
Thursday. shut down the economy.
>> We're good. No hot.
>> Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America.
Up [music] next,
equity futures right now pulling back
from alltime highs. We're down by 0.9%
on the S&P coming into Friday as of
Thursday at the close. Up for a seventh
consecutive week, the longest weekly win
streak going back to December 2023. Will
we undo that? upend it [music] with
these moves. We'll see. But we're taking
a bite out of that move so far. We're
down by 1.3% on the NASDAQ 100. Driven
by these moves in fixed income, yields
higher states side and worldwide on 10s
right now through 450 of five basis
points on the session. Near the highs of
the year on 10 [music] and 30s and
worldwide levels we haven't seen in
decades over in Japan.
>> Unclear exactly what the lever is going
to be for monetary policy makers to
constrain this. You see the Bank of
Japan refrain [music] from hiking rates
again even though people expected them
to do so. And here in the United States,
there's an expectation that the new Fed
chair who is going to come in possibly
next week after today being the last day
of Jerome Powell's term coming in will
not have the desire to hike rates either
despite what we're seeing in the bond
markets. These two factors really adding
[music] to the mood in markets. Let
>> me bring up the US curve again and just
think about where we are right now. So
twos, as we've stated repeatedly through
the week, trading above where the policy
rate is at the Federal Reserve. This is
going to be a really interesting moment
for the incoming Fed chair Kevin Walsh.
What does he choose to prioritize if he
tries to clarify his reaction [music]
function and anchor the front end of the
curve closer to where the policy rate
is? Where does that leave tens and 30s?
And how vague is he going to be about
what he wants to achieve with the
balance sheet at the same time? So we
talked about this repeatedly too [music]
that every central bank chief gets their
test in the market always happened
[music] to Pal happened to Yellen seen
it abroad happened to Lagard is that
moment starting to build for wash very
early on before he even gets [music] in
the seat
>> he comes into a fraught moment where
suddenly the dual mandate of the Federal
Reserve is very much potentially in
conflict although people are saying
they're seeing green shoots in the labor
market and this is someone who has
traditionally been a hawk I think it is
important to reiterate that so his
reaction function has actually been to
hike rates in the past. [music] How much
has that changed in the Trump era?
>> Turns up five basis points, 453 this
morning. 2 hours away from the cash
open. The opening bow just around the
corner. Danny Burgerer [music] has your
morning movers. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some of those higher bond
yields are taking some of the air out of
the hottest trades. The hottest trade of
course being a lot of the chips and
semis on that record run. So a few
things going on. That being one of them
too. Cerebrus, we got this blockbuster
IPO yesterday. It rallied 68%. It's down
just about 1%. So not nearly enough to
undo the huge rally, but again a lot of
optimism. Some of that comes out. We
also end the US China trip without any
meaningful deals around chips around
Nvidia for example. So most of the
sector down this morning. Intel getting
hit the hardest down 4.3%.
Uh elsewhere this morning, uh, Figma
reporting earnings and shares are up
nearly 11%. It's all about their AI
driven offerings. They have Figma make a
tool that enterprises can use and they
did site a lot of large enterprise
adoption. So positivity there up 10 and
a [music] half%. Elsewhere in earnings,
Gemini uh the Winklevoss twins uh crypto
exchange also reported earnings. It's
rallying a lot not necessarily on the
numbers but a strategic investment from
the twins themselves. $100 million at
$14 a share. So significantly higher
than where they're trading. Evercore
points out that were not for that,
shares would likely be lower because the
earnings missed on [music] a lot of key
metrics, but those shares up 20 and a.5%
in the pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Do you
remember the whip around over at
Blackstone that came up with all that
money? That's the whip around over at
Gemini. It's not bad, is it? Some deep
pockets there.
>> I mean, when you start thinking about
some of these founders, [music] I mean,
wasn't it the the founder of Cerebras
now as a $3 billion man overnight?
[music] It's sort of, you know, other
worlds. Other worlds.
>> Pretty impressive. Not our world. Pretty
impressive. Nevertheless, on our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
offering more details of talks with his
Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping. The
president telling reporters on Air Force
One just moments ago he's made no
commitment over Taiwan and would make a
decision over arms sales soon.
Controversial. Elsewhere, OpenAI CFO
Sarah Frier telling us here at Bloomberg
the company may need to raise more
capital to meet surging AI demand.
>> We have seen an incredible lift in our
revenues to match just the demand that
I'm talking about. On top of that, we
have raised a lot of money. I'm not
averse to raising more capital, although
right now that 122 billion gives us a
lot of uh optionality. Frier adding that
future fundraising will depend on the
gap between computing power needs and
what OpenAI can afford. And finally,
Brammo mentioned it. Cerebra systems
soaring more than 68% in its highly
anticipated public debut. It's the
largest IPO so far this year as appetite
for AI data centers and the chips
running them continue to grow. that
stock down just marginally this morning
by 1.6%.
>> Yeah, but as you were noting, the best
debut of its kind in decades. Uh, and
what we're seeing right now in markets
is a really warm reception for a
chipmaker. And this is the key. It's a
chipmaker. This is not OpenAI. This is
not anthropic. This isn't SpaceX.
Although it potentially sets the stage
for a really profitable moment for them
as well later this year when they IPO.
Nonetheless, they sit at the epicenter
of the spending boom from the
hyperscalers. They make a different kind
of chip than CPU or GPU. I was looking
at its clients. Guess who's in there?
Yes, Amazon Web Services, but also Open
AI. So, how much are these all
integrated as well and relying on one
another to continue to profit as they
build out the AI?
>> In one word, vary. We'll talk about the
K-shaped consumer in a moment. The
K-shaped market as well. There are
companies that have access to the market
right now both public and private that
can raise tons of money can come to an
IPO come public and have a move like
that on its debut. Alphabet can tap the
bond market here there and everywhere
met with fantastic demand. I just wonder
how bifocated that is the AI ecosystem
so to speak and then everybody else.
Well, you've seen that with some of the
potential losers from AI with the
Saskopalypse or this uh software as a
service that potentially gets undermined
as a result of people using AI to build
their own rather than to buy their own.
So, going forward, this is going to be
the debate. How much dispersion should
there be? Who are the winners in the AI
sphere going to be? And will the
appetite remain for all of the other
much much bigger IPOs, it should be
said, that are on the schedule for later
this year?
>> That's the K-shaped market. Let's talk
about the K-shaped economy. Turning to
retail investors awaiting earnings next
week for another reading on consumer
spending. Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of
America writing, "We expect TJX, Ross,
and Burlington to speak to a strong
start to the year supported by elevated
tax refunds and trade down driven by gas
inflation." Lraine joins us now for
more. Lank, good morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> It's going to see how squeezed are
consumers right now.
>> You not as squeezed as I think people
fear. And and remember, we're getting
first quarter earnings, so it's a little
bit of a backward-looking data point,
but consumers were receiving very high
levels of tax refunds throughout the
first quarter. So, that served to more
than offset any squeeze they felt from
gasoline. I think what's really
important, and brace yourselves for a
big week next week, uh the forward
outlook is, you know, as these tailwinds
Wayne, what happens? Because gas prices
are still very high in the wallet. I
think that the consumer takes a little
bit of a decelerating trend. I think uh
they trade down. I think they use their
dollars a little more wisely and they
really search for value.
>> TJX, the last time they had a down year,
I think you've got to go back to what
2008, something like that. They've had a
fantastic run.
>> I didn't say TJX would be down.
>> No, I'm I'm going to say, are they going
to have another year?
>> No, I I I think absolutely not. And and
when you look at, you know, we we've
gone back 20 years and looked at times
when gas prices spiked. And you look at
clothing spending, it falls. Jewelry
spending, it falls. Off-pric retail
behaves much more like a necessity and
goes at its normal trajectory. And the
reason is their customer may have to
trade down. And then an upward upper
income customer trades down into their
stores looking for that value, right?
Everybody's wallets are squeezed. They
end up taking share.
>> How much are we seeing a K-shaped retail
sector? And it doesn't have to do with
necessarily the income strata of the
clients as much as the success of
management teams to really put forward a
story that either works or really
doesn't.
>> Yeah. I mean, what we've seen in a time
of a little bit of consumer duress over
the past year or so is that if your
brand is hot, you are really able to get
that share of wallet. You know, Coach,
the Coach brand is a great example of
that, right? They just put up a 29%
growth rate in North America. I don't
think any of us would have expected that
a few years ago, but they made some
great investments in marketing. They've
really elevated their brand and they've
been successful. Um, you can contrast
that with a lot of other players both in
the handbag and footwear space. They're
not seeing the same success.
>> Well, I'm going to talk about Nike and
Lululemon, for example, which have been
underperforming and we've talked about
it a lot on the show. Uh, John's been
talking about Nike and how they really
lost some of their vigor of the athletic
heartbeat that they used to that they
used to be driven by. Going forward, how
much can we look at earnings as giving a
read on the consumer versus a read on
strategy given the results that we've
had so far and given the consumer
spending numbers that we've seen from
some of the big cards?
>> Yeah, I I the the results have been so
bifurcated, right? You'll see retailer,
you know, even footwear retailers like
on holdings or Hoka putting up growth
and then you see Nike putting up
decline. So, it's really a big share
shift and I wouldn't say I wouldn't use
Nike as a gauge for the consumer. You
know, Nike just didn't innovate like it
needed to. And when you have competition
nipping at your heels, you really need
good product. Um, they relied on some of
their old stalwarts instead of really
going out and doing what Nike usually
does, which is lead the market with
innovation.
>> You don't want to be apologizing. I I
just feel like Nike as a brand has
completely lost its attitude. And we
were talking in the commercial break
before we came on about the Boston
Marathon and that commercial they had
walking tolerated, right? Old school
Nike sort of get at it, do it, get
aggressive, and then they were
apologizing for the walking tolerated.
People were offended. They pulled the ad
and went with something else. That's
kind of where Nike is at today. That is
not what Nike used to be. What changed
at that company?
>> You know, look, they they're much bigger
and they now target not just runners,
but walkers. And I think they need to
remember that. [laughter] Um, so what
changed? They've had a few different
management teams come in and again I
think they lost their focus a little bit
on sport. They got into a lot more
casual um a lifestyle product and now
they're actually completely refocused on
performance product. Um it will take
more time because that's a smaller part
of the market but I think it is the
right strategy for that. From a branding
perspective, who's got it right right
now? We mentioned American Eagle sort of
unapologetic, offended some people, did
not apologize, sales went up. Who's got
it right at the moment?
>> You know, I think, um, I think there are
several brands. Ralph Lauren, um, Coach
is certainly having a bit of a moment.
Birkenstock put up really strong growth
earlier this week. So, there are some
brands that are are doing quite well.
Um, the Gap brand is showing a
resurgence that I certainly hadn't
predicted, but it's been really fun to
watch. U, so yeah, there are several of
them with great marketing and good
product and they're they're kind of
coming back from where they used to be.
>> I think about the GAP CEO, Brahmo, you
talk to him a lot. He just sort of
personifies the brand whenever he walks
into the room, whenever he sits
alongside us, he's like that is the gap.
>> Also, he had this to say about American
Eagle. He said that you shouldn't shy
away from controversy. you should meet
the cultural moment and he is a big
believer in telling a story using cat's
eye with dances and denim and trying to
meet sort of the cultural ideas of the
time. You have to kind of lean in at a
time where increasingly it's
storytelling beyond everything else and
it has to be delivered in sort of viral
memes versus some sort of billboard that
delivers a message that you have to
adhere to.
>> Nike just seems scared and that's not
what that brand used to be. You know,
ultimately it does come down to how do
you compete and how do you be edgy?
Right now I was seeing New Balance
trying to be edgy when I walked into a
store and I was thinking to myself,
>> crazy what that was to us as kids,
right?
>> I mean, you just you think about, you
know, dads
ago.
>> I know. And now they're like platform
sneakers with new colors and you know,
get yours today.
>> Lorraine, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Thank you. Lorraine
Hutcherson there of Bank of America. I
was thinking the same thing. New
Balance. Honestly, they were the things
that were on sale. You'd never get me in
New Balance as a kid.
>> You know, I went into a a foot locker
recently with a child who needed new
shoes desperately and there were shoes
that looked like moon boots and there
were things that were like, you know, 5t
tall and they looked like, you know,
Tesla trucks and, you know, whatever.
People at least are trying new things
and then you saw Nike and it was just
sort of sitting there in the corner.
It's sort of how do you get your brand
out there in your face even if it isn't
the most attractive to
>> like a World Cup coming up as well.
Usually they've selected the player with
the biggest attitude, a ton of flare,
they get behind them. I don't see any of
that happening with that brand right
now.
>> Maybe they're filming it. Maybe maybe
I'm part of it. You just don't know.
>> The clock is ticking. I hope you are. I
look forward to that. All right.
[laughter]
>> Nobody needs that.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump speaking to
reporters on Air Force One [music] as he
returns to the US from China. Trump
discussing his talks with she that
covered the war and in Iran as well as
the [music] situation with Taiwan.
>> On Iran, it's very interesting. He feels
strongly they can't have a nuclear
weapon. He wants them to open up the
trade on Taiwan. He does not want to see
a fight for independence because that
would be a very strong confrontation.
>> Trump going on to say he will make a
decision about arm sales to Taiwan soon.
Cuba has run out of the fuel oil it
needs to keep its power plants running.
President Miguel Diaz Canel blames
President Donald Trump posting on X that
the dramatic decline in conditions is
due to what he calls the genocidal
[music] US energy blockade. And LVMH is
selling the Mark Jacobs brand to a
venture between H WHP Global and HG3
apparel group. The deal coming as LVMH
looks [music] to capitalize on its
higherend luxury brands including Louis
Vuitton and Christian Dior. [music] A
lot of leather letters there. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you very much. Up next, [music] Hope for
a transitory transition.
>> Transitions are important and I think
that you know it is maybe helpful to
have someone [music] there to give
advice, but I still think it's important
that it be a transition because you want
to have there be very clearly one
chairman. Up next, we'll catch up with
Sabbatra Chapper of Sgen. Live from New
York City, this is Bloomberg Survivors.
Stocks just off session lows, down 1% on
the S&P 500. Negative across the board
here on the NASDAQ 100. We're down by
1.4. Welcome to the Federal Reserve.
Kevin Wars. Check [music] it out in the
bond market. Twos 10 30s, twos north of
4%. That was a bit of a ceiling for this
bond market for a while. [music] We've
broken through it. Up by three basis
points today at the front end of the
curve. Up by five to six at the longer
[music] end of the curve. The 30-year
yield just feels a little bit untethered
at the moment. 5.1% on 30s this morning.
>> Unclear exactly what's [music] going to
pull it into check and ultimately it
comes down to who is Kevin Worsh. What's
his reaction function going to be? Will
he be willing to hike [music] rates in
the face of inflation that seems to be
reacelerating?
>> Day one on the job under surveillance
this [music] morning hoping for a
transitory transition.
Transitions are important and I [music]
think that, you know, it is maybe
helpful to have someone there to give
advice, but I still think it's important
that it be a transition [music] because
you want to have people's loyalties
undivided. You want to have there be
very clearly one chairman. You want to
have a place where there's no question
about [music] no question about who's in
charge and there's no talk of rival
factions and things being split.
>> So here's the latest this morning. JPA's
term at the top of the Federal Reserve
coming to a close, opening the door to
incoming Fed chair Kevin Walsh. Satra
Shaper of Sockchen writing, "The US
economy remains resilient despite higher
inflation. We should keep the Fed on
hold for the remainder of the year and
possibly even longer." Sabbatra joins us
now for more. Sabbat, good morning. Good
to see you. We've talked about this
repeatedly this morning. The market
often tests a new leader. Is that test
beginning a little bit earlier?
>> Absolutely. I think the bond market's
not only just testing the the the Fed
leadership, it's also putting Congress
on notice because you're starting to be
concerned about higher debt and
deficits, which I think is what's
playing out in the very long end. In the
very front end, the market starting to
price in hikes. What is really really
going to be important for Kevin Walsh is
keeping inflation expectations in check.
When inflation expectations start to get
a bit unhinged, then he has a problem in
his hands. So I think you know it's very
very important for the Fed to change its
bias from easing to neutral and be ready
to act if needed.
>> So in June that's the opportunity to do
that. They also have to put out
forecast. So just describe and I know
it's early and June even now we're sort
of mid May. June feels ages away but
when we get to that meeting what's that
SCP going to look like?
>> Um it's going to be very interesting. Um
I don't see how the regional Fed
presidents change their forecast
meaningfully. If anything, they're going
to continue to show a bias towards
higher inflation. I think the labor
market's still relatively stable. Uh so
you're not going to see perhaps a
significant rise in the unemployment
rate. Growth is going to be interesting.
Last time I was expecting maybe they'll
start showing uh you know concerns that
growth might start to to trend lower.
That didn't really happen. If anything,
you're seeing significant amount of
investment in in capex coming from uh
the hyperscalers for not just this year
but for the next several years. that's
continuing to support growth in the US.
>> Would you rather buy at the front end
with the belief that the Fed is not
going to hike rates no matter what or
the long end believing that this Fed is
more likely to hike rates than a lot of
people think?
>> If I had to make a choice, I would say
the front end, but I'm starting to get a
bit concerned because uh bond yields
definitely feel like they're getting uh
a bit unhinched. I think we should be
really paying attention to the signal
that we're getting from the bond market
because the bond market's actually
starting to say pay attention to all the
dynamics that are happening. Higher oil
prices, the potential impact of uh debt
and deficits not just in the US but
globally and then the the overall uh you
know picture of this war is not getting
resolved anytime soon. The presumption
in the markets was that we get through
it'll be a short conflict and then oil
prices start to trend lower. But the
longer this drags on and the longer oil
prices remain high, I think that that
really sends a very strong message for
both Congress as well as um you know,
the Fed chair to be much more vigilant.
>> Can this message be dampened by a Fed
Treasury accord?
>> I think it's too soon for that accord to
be put in place. I mean, I think it's
going to take months to come up with
some sort of a framework that makes
sense uh to be able to deal with this
issue. And as it stands, you know, the
Fed is somewhat working with the with
the Treasury in the sense that, you
know, the Treasury is issuing a lot more
bills. The Fed is, you know, was is
buying more bills and trying to reduce
the average maturity of its Soma
portfolio. I'm not sure what else they
can do over the over the near term on
that on that front.
>> That's the challenge. You can't play the
same hand twice. My memor is a bit hazy,
but it was at the back end of 23 when we
saw the changes from Janet Yellen at the
Treasury to move the issuance.
>> Yeah. And ultimately the corrective
action from the Treasury helped yields
to top and then to decline.
>> You can't do that a second time. So what
kind of corrective action could we see
from the Treasury in response to this
kind of thing?
>> Not really a whole lot. I mean I think
what you really need happening is on the
policy front, the Fed's going to have to
show some sort of a bias to to hike if
we see inflation expectations getting
unhinged. And more importantly, it's
going to be on trae on the trajectory
for debt and deficits. To me, that's an
underdisussed topic. If you look at the
Trump administration's ask on what they
want to um what they want for fiscal
year 2027 for defense spending, you're
looking at, you know, the defense
spending going from close to a trillion
to one a half trillion extrapolated over
the next 10 years, you get some really,
really big numbers for debt and
deficits. On the other side, there's
just no willingness to uh address that
issue there. There's not going to be any
near-term increases in in in taxes. Uh
we're not going to be able to grow our
way out of it. So, it's just going to
get continue to get worse. And the
longer interest rates remain high, your
debt financing costs go higher. So,
that's when I'm that's what I'm
[clears throat] really concerned about.
>> You've alluded to this a few times now,
so can I sort of spell it out? Do you
believe the best way to keep long-end
yields anchored is to threaten to hike
front end rates?
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think that's an understanding
that's shared on the committee?
>> Um, you mean the FOMC?
>> Do you think they get that?
>> I think that the there are some hawkish
members in the in the committee. We saw
the descents at the last meeting. They
clearly want to change the bias. They
want to be prepared to hike if if
needed. The question is whether the
chair and the doves in the committee get
the same uh message.
>> How many doves are left just out of
interest? How much company is Kevin
Walsh going to have? If Kevin Walsh is
indeed a dove because we do really don't
know that until we hear from him in the
seat at the Federal Reserve in the news
conference. How much companies he got?
>> We know that a few of the of the
governors Waller you know um as well as
u Michel Bowman maybe Powell are on the
same page. You know regional Fed
presidents are starting to to fray. You
do have people like Mary Daly who's
who's a bit more on the on the on the
dovish side, but broadly speaking, I
think the the consensus is starting to
slowly move towards uh at least a
neutral stance on policy.
>> Some real push back from Michael B in
the last 24 hours as well. Pretty
explicit about what he thinks the major
risk is here.
>> Yeah. And he's just one of a number.
We've heard, of course, from the
Minneapolis Fed President, from the
Boston Fed president, from Kansas City,
Kansas City Fed President, uh, Eric
Schmidt, who said that he saw continued
inflation as the most pressing pressing
risk to the economy. So, it doesn't seem
like this is a Fed that can remain an
easing bias. Do they understand that
they need to actually adopt a hiking
bias in order to tame the long end of
the yield curve? You know, June's going
to be an interesting one.
>> I'm just envisioning that June meeting
and TK around the table with us saying,
"Obe overtaken by events." And that
event right now if it was today would be
in the bond market.
>> Yeah. And then the countervent will be
in the truth social market. So again
this is the conflicting issue. Are
markets conflicting right now? Because
at the front of the yield curve there is
a real belief in a hiking bias at the
Federal Reserve. Is that adopted by
equity markets? Have they adopted
[music] a real hiking bias in terms of
their understanding of rates?
>> It's good to see you. Thanks for being
here of sock gen. Coming up Eureka
Hoffman Bachi of UPS. Tom Mortensson of
bad, Aaron McLaclin of the conference
board, plus Scott Cronin of City. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
just around the corner.
What you have right now is an earnings
driven market. People want to get
exposure to growth and strong economy
earnings go ahead.
>> Earnings momentum doesn't seem like it's
peaking.
>> If you think of what's driving these
global markets right now, [music] it's a
semiconductor super cycle for the
history books.
>> It's the casting away of fear in its
entirety that will end up being the
market's biggest problem at some point.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores. The price action looks
like this. Pulling back from all-time
highs. We're negative across the board.
We're down 1% on the S&P, down by 1.5 on
the Nasdaq with these moves in the bond
market. Some new numbers for [music] you
north of 450 on 10, up by six basis
points and 90 minutes out from the cash
open in equities. [music]
Yields making new highs for the session
on 30s pushing 5.1%. People are getting
a little bit more concerned as they see
a yield curve steepening on the margin
even as we're pricing in rate hikes
[music] at least in the margin by April
of next year. That's according to the
2-year yield being above the Fed funds
rate currently. You start looking at
this, what is it portraying? A bit of
unmed inflation. We're getting that
hotter than expected PPI prints around
the world [music] and a lack of monetary
policy response to offset any kind of
inflationary pressure. And it's not just
who the new Fed chair is, but it is a
global issue. There is a desire not to
sty any kind of economic growth [music]
even amid inflationary shock after
inflationary shock.
>> Look at the issues globally right now.
Leadership issues in the UK, [music] PPI
the hottest in 12 years. Over in Japan,
deficit problems there, the lack of
fiscal space across the continent in
places like Europe. Then in the US right
now in the US, allflation [music] and no
stack. So you're not even having growth
get hit which might support the bond
market. You're getting hot reads on CPI,
on PPI, and the economy [music] right
now is pretty resilient. So the bond
market is going to keep pushing and keep
pushing and keep pushing and at some
point the test arrives at the doorstep
of [music] chairman Walsh and I think
that test has come a lot earlier than
expected.
>> Yeah, in June they're going to have to
really move either to a neutral bias or
even a hiking bias in order to meet the
moment that we're seeing expressed in
markets. If they maintain their easing
bias, that would be a shock. If you take
a step back, there is a sea change
underway. You were talking about when
you and I used to talk about the lynch
pins in the bond market, negative yields
around the world, Japan not moving, them
owning their bond market. We're [music]
now at a phase where we've seen decades
of financialization of markets and now
we're going back to industrialization.
[music]
We got to pay for that. And we're seeing
bond sales up the wazoo to try to pay
for that. And all of a sudden all of
that capital that people have had has to
go to work and that is a new regime. And
suddenly you got to pay up for that
money. So there is a structural overlay
that also leads this to be a higher
yield environment in a more natural way.
>> It was a different world. There was a
lot of stock stock buybacks, plenty of
capital [music] returns, not much capex,
driven by the biggest companies on the
planet doing something very very
different. Now it's changed. Now you're
going to start to see more debt
issuance, Alphabet on a massive [music]
four month spree, $60 billion worth. On
top of that, more IPOs. This is where
the story starts to change in the equity
market as well. The members of the S&P
are still the same big contributors, the
same big [music] names that we've been
talking about for the last 10 years, but
they're different and they're doing
different things. They're spending less
on capital returns. They're spending
more [music] on investment and they're
now tapping the bond market. And
Alphabet's a really interesting example
of that because now they're looking for
different pockets of liquidities in
[music] different markets going to
Canada, to Japan, to Switzerland, to the
UK, just trying to find more and more
space to make sure this market [music]
doesn't push back.
>> And they've been received really well. I
mean, the numbers are massive and yet
their balance sheets that much more
massive. And people around the world
really want to get into [music] their
debt because frankly, it's a good
opportunity. And tech debt has
outperformed. It's the dispersion, the
K-shaped in both [music] consumers and
also in companies and also in debt
issuers where suddenly you're going to
have a number of names that cannot raise
money that cannot refinance and what is
going to happen to [music] those
companies. So can you see a default
cycle within a boom market? Can you see
this kind of shakeout at a time of
otherwise uh strength? [music] So these
are some of the reasons why people are
getting very excited about active
management.
>> Cheap guide to today's session so far.
Bond yields near session [music] highs,
equities near session lows. on the S&P
were down by about 1% on the NASDAQ
negative by 1.5. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Ora Hoffman Bashardi
of UPS with stocks calling off from
their record-breaking run. Ted Men, son
of Bed on risk that could impact the
tech sector and Scott Croner of City on
why his preferred AI trade is the NASDAQ
100. What a rip roaring rally we've seen
there through this year. We begin this
hour with stocks sliding a global bond
selling off as inflation fears ramp up.
Or Hoffman Bachard of UBS writing,
"After a decade of mega cap dominance
reinforced by passive investing, it's
now time for active." Or joins us now
for more. Or good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's talk about that statement there,
that quote. That's important. What's
changing do you believe that leads to
this moment?
>> Yeah, I think we're at a precipice of
new leadership in the equity markets. We
look at the Max 7 this year. It's quite
a dispersed picture. You talked about
dispersion. We also see this underneath
the service surface in equities. So two
of the max seven are down. Uh we have of
course you know two real leaders that
are outperforming the NASDAQ but we
haven't seen this before and so we think
AI is increasingly the dividing line
between winners of losers in the equity
market and what we're saying is AI is
tech but tech is not AI and so for us
just investing in the NASDAQ 100 is not
sufficient. We want to invest in the AI
leaders and those are companies that are
in the semi supply chain but also uh of
course cloud computing.
>> Can we build on that a little bit more?
We needed the bust in to establish the
ultimate winners of that era. Do you
need the bust in this one or we already
establishing who the winners might be?
>> So I think that's a great question. I
think so far when we look at AI we have
been in the opening game of the AI
chess. Anybody can win in the opening
game. I think now we are starting to
enter the middle game of AI and in the
middle game some players some pieces are
falling off the board and I think we'll
see that increasingly in the course of
this year.
>> I'll name some of the companies that are
struggling at the moment. You name some
that are down on the year. Meta
struggling, Microsoft struggling.
Alphabet is really not struggling. I
don't expect you to be single name
specific but just describe the kind of
companies that are succeeding and the
attributes they have and the ones that
are struggling and the attributes they
don't have. That's the dividing line
between one or the other.
>> We increasingly focused on the physical
economy because if you think about what
happened with software could happen to
other parts of the digital economy. If
we have more agentic AI, what role will
the internet play? Is it going to be a
transaction layer or is it going to be
still optimizing for human attention?
Right? The internet right now is
optimizing converting our attention into
transactions. But if agents execute more
and more of our consumption decisions,
how is that model of advertising going
to evolve? So for us, those are some
fundamental questions. So we prefer the
physical sectors in general, not just in
AI, but also in industrials, materials,
utilities that are empowering this AI
revolution.
>> How concerned are you about yields uh in
the bond space that are creeping higher
as a lot of the expansion plans are
predicated on being able to raise money
on a relatively costefficient way in the
bond market?
you always have to watch yields. I mean
any yeah killer seal to any prolonged
equity market bull run are rates. Um so
definitely worth watching. Oil of course
you know we have now Kevin Walsh coming
in. He wants to think about shrinking
the balance sheet. Those are all issues
that are weighing on the long end. But
we do think that we'll see one more cut
this year. Um Kevin Bors is coming to
the Fed at the point where it's been
most divisive since 1992.
and we think that's going to continue.
So we don't see a rate hike or cut. It's
just going to be gridlock in our view
for the next few months until December.
>> There are a number of bond traders that
are shaking their heads out there who
are listening to this and saying that's
not what we're seeing and that's not
what we're pricing.
>> Just to do a bit of scenario analysis
here, if the Fed were to adopt a hiking
uh bias or actually were to signal that
that was a very likely possibility, how
much would that dampen your view for uh
equities to keep rallying?
>> I think we need to see a little bit more
than one hike. If you look back at 99
2000, right, it took five hikes for the
NASDAQ to turn. So, it would certainly
be concerning, but it probably wouldn't
change our base case.
>> So, I guess that here's a question. If
you're if you're expecting yields to go
down, and it wouldn't matter if yields
would go higher,
>> what would shake your confidence given
the fact that we're seeing certain
companies that are clearly struggling
and there is this issue of how long run
rates can really keep expanding at the
pace they have been. I think you need to
see a sustained increase in rates and
quite a bit higher than what we have
right now. Maybe the 10year above five
would be more of an issue for us. But I
think at this levels we still expect
four four and a quarter by year end.
Again, if the economy starts to slow,
which what we are expecting in the
fourth quarter where the fiscal stimulus
is going to fade, we probably have some
pressure on the labor market from AI.
All of these things together for us
suggest that we may at least our base
case is that we have one more cut in
December not before then power by that
time might have also left uh that may
give room for another opening on the
house
>> right so there [laughter] there's a lot
of variables that we're looking at but
that's at least a possibility to
>> some of this of course is highly
dependent on why you think yields are
rising and I've been reading some of
your past comments your previous
comments that maybe we are on the cusp
of a cyclical upswing in this economy do
you think we are and what's powering
think that
>> we yeah we think there are three pillars
to this current upswing one of course is
fiscal expansion globally the four
largest economies in the world fiscally
stimulating um then secondly we have
this AI capex boom AI capex in the US is
2.5% of GDP now and rising and then
thirdly the consumer is still spending
we saw retail sales up 0.5% month over
month so you have the governments the
corporates and the consumer spending to
your point if rates go significantly
higher
All those three may be called into
question. So we're watching but it's not
our base case.
>> It's hard to fight. It's good to see
you. Thank you. Thanks for being here.
Or Hoffman Charlie there of UBS 10's at
450. HSBC has called that the danger
zone. UBS just saying that maybe that
needs to be closer to 5% to be a real
threat to this equity market.
>> Yeah, Lori Kelvina of RBC saying the
same thing. 5% really is the key trigger
point for some sort of material selling.
Either way, you raise a good point,
John, which is it depends why. And if
you do see a reaceleration in the
economy, does that come with
commensurate uh acceleration in the
labor market as well as potentially
consumers ability to absorb some of
those price increases? That's the
structural dilemma a lot of people are
>> that's an important moment for the
incoming Fed share. If you shift to
neutral from an easing bias, how do you
communicate it? If you're just worried
about inflation, that doesn't sound
great. But if growth is better, too,
that's a better story to tell.
>> It's a better story to tell as long as
consumers are participating. That's why
it's such a fraugh moment. If people are
losing the jobs because of AI and they
aren't be able to spend anything, well
then is this really one that you want to
hike into and then crimp their borrowing
power all the more?
>> Yields up seven basis points on tens
approaching 455 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yhara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Trump speaking to
[music] reporters on Air Force One as he
returns to the US from China. Trump
discussing his talks with she that
covered the war in Iran as well as the
situation with Taiwan.
>> On Iran it's very interesting. He feels
strongly they can't have a nuclear
weapon. He wants them to open up the
straight on Taiwan. He does not want to
see a fight for independence because
that would be a very strong
confrontation.
>> Trump going on to say he will make a
decision about arm sales to Taiwan soon.
The president also also saying he
discussed AI guard rails with shei
during the summit, including Nvidia's
H200 chips. Trump says China hasn't
approved purchases because they want to
develop their own. And Apple and Open
AI's partnership is on the rocks.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
AI startup is exploring possible legal
actions after not seeing the expected
benefits from its deal with the iPhone
maker. No final decision has been made.
[music] That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhierra, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, the
Morning Cause. Plus, we'll catch up with
Ted Mortensson of Bed on what could
threaten the historic rally in ship
makers from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
We think that the AI theme is best
expressed right now amongst the many
ways to express the AI theme in US large
cap growth. You have high earnings
growth, high margins and the valuations
well for large cap growth in the US.
They're below the 5-year average. It's
not bubbish valuation in my mind.
>> Well, here's the move this morning
pulling back. an equity market rally
stalling, running into [music] some
problems in the bond market. Futures
down by 1.2% on the S&P session lows
down by 1.7 on the NASDAQ. Europe
getting hammered in today's session,
approaching the back end of [music] that
particular close over in Europe. In the
bond market, state side treasuries twos,
10 tens, 30s. Yields up across the curve
up four basis points on twos, 4% 10ens
[music]
up seven basis points, 455 on 30s, 5.1%.
That's the move state side, highs of the
year. Check out the global move on a
German 10ear, the highest since 2011. On
a UK 10ear, the highest [music] since
2008. on a Japanese 10 year, the highest
since 1997.
We got a global bond market problem
>> and part of that is because some of
these economies are even more affected
[music] by higher oil prices. The
suggestions this morning are potentially
escalatory with President Trump saying
that it [music] his bar essentially is a
lot lower to go in, but also a question
of whether the Street of Ramoose will be
reopened at any point if, as President
Trump said, it's not our problem. You're
seeing oil prices go up. You're seeing
PPI come in hotter than expected around
the world and in tandem [music]
you're seeing bond yields rise to the
highest levels in decades.
>> Look at the UK. Honestly, just bring up
that board again. [music] 17 basis point
move. That is not a pretty picture, is
it? And every single time this happens,
[music] you see a much bigger move in
the UK. It's on the edge of being
something else. Not quite DM, it's
something else right now. And that's a
problem for leadership in that [music]
country. It was a conversation we had
before where it's increasingly acting
like an emerging economy, especially
given the uncertainty around the
leadership. Kier Starmer [music]
potentially being challenged by Andy
Burnham, the Manchester mayor, who has
said in the past that the bond market
shouldn't have the control that it does
over the market. This is the bond
market's response or at least shouldn't
have as much control over policy. Well,
the bond market's response this morning
is [music] okay, let's see how much you
can handle.
>> That's slamming the brakes on the equity
market rally. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, HSBC upgrading Cisco to buy,
highlighting [music] stronger AI
infrastructure momentum. Your second
call from City raising its price target
on applied materials, noting increased
earnings visibility. And finally, JP
Morgan raising its price target on Dow,
citing the reversal of memory related
concerns. Elsewhere, the socks index
surging 70% so far this year as demand
races past supply. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo
joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program. some jettters in the tech
space this morning, but wow, what a
rally we've seen over the last month or
so.
>> Yeah. And and so we start to ask why did
the rally sort of stop from Monday night
onwards. you know, there were very
broad-based reasons, shortage in memory,
um, a very broad-based AI fueled rally
in that 70% until the beginning of May
and then that first two weeks of May, I
probably John spent more time looking at
charts than I normally do, but if you go
back to sort of the end of March, Nvidia
is the biggest contributor to a lot of
that, right? Not just for the socks, but
for the the S&P 500 and NASDAQ 100 as
well. And the more recent enthusiasm in
Nvidia was that the president would go
to China irrespective of whether Jensen
was on the plane or not he ended up
being on the plane and achieve something
of substance. And if you look at the
markets in the moment, you know, one
session a market does not make but there
there's clearly a disappointment in the
here and now of what actually was
achieved. And you hire gave us the the
comments from the president that while
H200 was discussed, you know, China
wants to support its own domestic
industry. Um, so that's that's a big
part of it, but also the bar is now a
little bit higher. So instead of going
from increments of like is Nvidia a $5
trillion company or a $6 trillion
company, you know, we're very much
focused on the fact that it hit 5.5
trillion and that was a bit of a ceiling
in the moment. Um, we're in overbought
territory for much of that. Not just in
in your videos, but some of the large
caps like your um your your uh prior
guest mentioned in that clip and and
some of the smaller names in the
semi-industry as well. We've kind of hit
a top for now. What's $500 billion
between France Brema? Well,
>> a couple of days of trading.
>> Let's do a whip around and we'll see
what we can raise to be the idea that
you can raise $900 billion or at least
or you could increase your market cap in
in seven trading sessions is bonkers.
>> Ed, thank you buddy. Looking forward to
the program. Ed ladlow on Bloombeck
Technology coming to you in a few hours
time. Ted Mortensson of bed writing the
following. There's a hoarding of
semiconductor supply ahead of price
increases. Few are concerned about
double or triple ordering. Shortages are
a real concern. Ted joined us now for
more. Ted, welcome back to the program.
Good to hear from you. That's a
provocative statement for us all to
think about. How are you thinking about
that just in terms of the price action
that you're anticipating in the months
and quarters ahead?
>> Well, it's truly been a meltup. I mean,
if your previous guest Ed uh put it
well, I mean, if you look at the socks,
it's up 70% year to date. But more
importantly, if you look at since April
7th, um the socks is up 52%.
Actually, that's a pretty good multiple
years of performance in a month. So,
we've had this uh real meltup. I think
the other thing is where I talk to my
clients if you look at the semiconductor
index in relationship to uh US GDP
during the dotcom bubble we were
probably 15% the semiconductor complex
was 15% of the GDP uh if you look at the
global financial crisis call it 7% if
you look at COVID we were at roughly 25%
today we're at 50% of GDP so there's a a
fair amount of good news uh based upon
the really really strong fundamentals. I
sit on 70 plus conference calls during
earning season and there's been 25
bellweathers that have actually killed
it on earnings. So the macros strong,
but I think there's roughly six or seven
macros that the streets really not
looking around the corner on.
>> What are those macros that you're
thinking of?
>> Well, number one, I I would say
inflation. every single call and you you
know you've talked about it all morning
on the two and the five the tens of
Japan and the UK yields inflation is in
tech is everywhere and I think everybody
knows it's in memory but it's it's
everywhere from substrates to uh
commodity IC's to just availability
um number two I think if if you if you
look at models um where my worry is is
just in the EU you and EMA, it's 30%
roughly of all diversified tech
companies. If if they're having problems
from the economy side, I think a lot of
these um models could be stale over the
long term. Uh number three is shortages.
Uh you know, if you listen to the
microchip call, uh Steve Sangi basically
said his die inventory is going to be
depleted in a few months. Um we're
running into because of the Straits of
Hormuz issue uh uh as a contributor we
are running into some shortages. Could
we see kind of a COVID golden screw
issue happen in Q3? Possible. Uh number
number four and I think this is the one
that uh people kind of put on the back
burner but since the robust uh
infrastructure build on data centers
access to power is getting much more
difficult and the the last two is just
um more of the uh Iranian conflict. I
the street is
>> yeah the street is totally uh uh bought
into this taco trade. Ted, Ted, I'm
wondering also where Taiwan ranks on
this given the fact that we just came
from the meeting between Xiinping and
President Trump and there are real
questions over China's desires when it
comes to Taiwan. Is that entering into
anybody's minds these days on earnings
calls or anything else?
>> No. Uh right now everybody's uh
overweight TSM because they control all
the advanced logic production basically
in the world and they've uh they've
perfected three and two nanometers. So
everybody's there. I don't think the
geopoliticals uh right now in in the
semiconductor uh thought process.
>> And do you think it should be? I think
over time it should be um it all depends
what happens in the next couple months
uh you know in the Ukrainian conflict
and and the Iranian conflict and you
know if it gets uh spicy I think uh I
think the scenarios may change. Ted,
just a final question. You went through
a range of potential constraints,
shortages, power constraints. We've been
talking about the potential of capital
constraints as well, maybe some push
back in financial markets. Lots of
people are having this debate right now
about what we might hit first. What do
you think we might hit first?
>> I think it's the capital restraints. I
mean, just from the the buy side
perspective, look what happened
yesterday with uh Cerebis. I mean, but
you know, look who's coming. uh you know
you possibly have uh SpaceX coming
relatively soon followed by Entropic. I
mean you've got a lot of uh very
significant tech IPOs coming. My worry
is that we we drain the liquidity of the
equity markets and it becomes much more
difficult. Um there's going to have to
be some PMs that really look at their
portfolios and see what they what they
have to sell to fund some of these IPOs.
Interesting. It's kind of where my
mind's going as well, Ted. It's good to
hear from you. Thank you, sir. Ted Mson
there of bad. We've been talking about
this throughout this morning, going from
asset scarcity coming out of the
pandemic to maybe just sort of
abundance, all this issuance in the debt
market, all of this issuance in the
public equity market as well in the year
to come.
>> Yeah. And what Ted was just saying
there, if someone wants to get in on
OpenAI or on SpaceX when it actually
does go public, do they have to sell
Meta in order to do so, right? Are they
going to have to sell Microsoft shares?
I mean, how do they make room for this?
And how exactly are the indexes going to
be composed? Is this going to be now 30%
of the weight? These new IPOs that
suddenly are going to come and subsume
liquidity from other areas. It's a real
question. It's a different dynamic.
[music]
>> That's the supply on the horizon so far.
Just tracking demand. Demand for the IPO
solid performance. Good. The one we saw
yesterday, demand for the debt from the
hyperscalers, solid so far. We just keep
tracking the demand. See how it stacks
up against a wall of supply that might
still be coming. Coming up on the
program, Aaron McLolin at the conference
board as pressure builds on the US
consumer. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. Cerebras pulling back following
a blockbuster debut trading [music] day.
The open about 60 minutes away. The
state of play futures down just off
session lows. We're down 1.2 [music]
on the S&P on the NASDAQ down by 1.7.
Krinsky, Jonathan Krinsky over at BTIG
[music] publishing just moments ago on
S&P and the record dispersion we're
seeing now 8.56 [music] above 8.56%
above the 50-day moving average. Only
47% of the names are above their
respective 50 DMAs. This is by far the
widest divergence [music]
on record. We've seen all the
superlatives over the last week about
this market. Concentration dispersion,
things have got really, really narrow.
You haven't seen bad breath like this in
a long time. And I'm not talking about
needing gum. It's this question of can
you have a sustainable rally [music]
driven by just a couple of names. I
believe Nvidia and Micron account for a
significant proportion of all the gains
so far this year. Just two [music] names
that increasingly are driving this. So
at what point does that threaten this?
And at what point, you know, you asked
this before, is it a feature or a
[music] bug? On one hand, people could
say it's a feature and let's just pile
in and ultimately that has been what's
been ruling so far this year.
>> Well, upending the equity market isn't
[music] really that this morning. It's
this. It's the bond market. Stateside
treasury yields are near the highs of
the year are by seven basis points
[music] on 10 at 455.
The move elsewhere going international
even bigger in [music] certain places.
So highs of the year states side. In
Germany the highest level we've seen
since 2011. In the UK since '08 in Japan
the Japanese 10ear overnight the highest
since 1997.
Some major moves internationally.
[music] These are the economies that are
actually more exposed to the increase in
commodity costs stemming from the
straight of fermuz. And you've seen this
in hotter than expected PPI [music]
prints in Japan following the one that
we saw in the United States. In the US,
there are buffers. We're an oil
exporter. We are an oil producer.
[music] That isn't the case in Japan.
That isn't the case in the European
continent and that isn't the case in the
United Kingdom. [music]
So it becomes that much more of a
stressor at a time where there is fiscal
limitations with respect to [music] the
deficit and frankly a lack of will on
the part of monetary policy makers to
save this off from a demand destruction
side by raising rates.
>> Wherever I look right now I just see
capital needs [music] and supply. This
has been a feature of the program this
morning. Wherever I look that's all I
see. Alphabet tap in the Japanese bond
market [music] going to the debt market
raising 60 billion in the last 4 months
across a range of regions. Sarah [music]
Frier of OpenAI, the CFO, speaking to
Bloomberg saying, "Yes, we've just had a
record round of fundraising in private
markets, but we might have to go again."
The Treasury market, big deficits here
state side, even with a strong economy,
and that's been the new normal now for a
number of years. Japan's got its own
problems. The UK's got its own problems.
Germany in the mix in the last 12 months
pledging to supply more. Wherever
[music] you look, the IPOs, supply,
supply, supply, a wall of it in the next
12 months.
>> Building is expensive. [music] There
have been decades where we have not been
building where it has been fiscal
expansion uh monetary repression and
this idea that we are living in a
financialized market. You put your
market into stocks or into bonds you're
going to gain money and that's it and
you can go on your way. [music] The
bill's coming due. You have to build
stuff in order to keep the economy going
in an AI era and increasingly that is
what we're seeing right now. There is
enough capital out there to fuel that.
The fear [music] is what happens when
there's not or if there's not and that
ultimately hasn't happened but you're
seeing just people begin to raise that
possibility.
>> So far [music] demand's been good.
Demand has met the moment but there's a
wall of supply on the horizon. We'll
keep on tracking and for the man at the
top of the Federal Reserve now Kevin
Walsh an interesting first day at work
for him. [music] One hour away from the
cash open. Let's get you some morning
movers. Danny Burgerer has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Perhaps the poster child of
wanting and finding a way to fund raise
is Cerebrus in their blockbuster IPO
yesterday. The AI chipmaker rallying
68%. Some of the air coming out of that
this morning as it does the entirety of
the semis trades. Reebra's down 2.9%.
Intel's one of the worst performing
[music] down 5%. Higher bond yields just
weighing on this rally. That's been
record-breaking in some measures. And
you have the outcome of the US China
trips. No necessarily big action when it
comes to semiconductors and Nvidia
itself, which is down 3%. Elsewhere this
morning, Dexcom, they are a glucose
monitoring uh device maker [music] for
diabetes and for others. Uh they
reported earnings and they were pretty
strong, but the excitement here is that
Elliot is taking a stake in Dexcom.
They've already appointed board members.
They're pushing them uh to make more
efforts to expand their margins. [music]
Uh we're gonna have the CEO on on open
interest in the 10 a.m. hour, and those
shares are up five and a half percent.
Finally, Papa John's. Those shares also
moving significantly higher, up nearly
10%. The firm Earth alongside one of the
biggest franchise owners of Papa John's
reportedly in talks to take Papa John's
private according to Reuters. So again,
those shares rallying pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you for the latest. Danny
Burger there. More from Danny around the
open and bell as her and Matt Miller
guide you through the open in [music]
the next hour or so. A new era taking
shape of the Federal Reserve. Fed chair
J Pal ending an 8-year tenure as Kevin
Walsh steps into a Fed facing an
uncertain path ahead. Mike McKe joins us
now for more. Mike, welcome to the
program. You and I have talked about
this with various leaders at the top of
various central banks. They all face
their own test. Is that test already
brewing in this bond market for Kevin
Walsh?
>> Oh, it absolutely is. And with the
economy being where it is, it's going to
be a real challenge. Let me start with
some good news, bad news. The good news
for Kevin Walsh is the Empire index from
the New York Fed. Manufacturing in the
New York Fed region comes in at a 4year
high of 196, but prices paid. The bad
news is at a 4-year high of 62.6.
So, as Kevin Walsh comes in, this is
Powell's last official day as chair, and
he will be staying on as a governor
until who knows when. Uh, we don't know
when Walsh is going to actually be sworn
in. Sometime in the next few days,
depends on when the paperwork gets done.
and his first Fed meeting is June 16th
and 17th. So, everybody's going to be
keeping an eye on that. But he walks in
with these black clouds of inflation
hanging over his head and Donald Trump's
uh tweets hanging over his head. Uh he's
got to uh contend with the fact that
inflation is moving away from its 2%
target. We had those dissents uh at the
last meeting from members of the
committee he's now going to oversee
saying they think they should be warning
people maybe we have to raise rates plus
as far as the inflation is concerned
we've got more tariffs coming up this
summer and out there the justice
department still lurks jal staying on
because of that and there's the question
of whether the fed can remain
independent and what about his plans to
shrink the balance sheet that's his
signature move other than with interest
rates. And already we're seeing a lot of
push back from the people he's going to
be working with. Michael Bar last night,
shrinking the balance sheet is the wrong
objective. And of course, Chris Waller
recently saying that the scarce reserves
regime would be stupid and massively
inefficient. I don't have a lot of
confidence in the idea of shrinking the
balance sheet according to John
Williams, the New York uh Fed president.
So at this point he's got a lot of
opposition in a lot of areas and he's
got a lot of economic problems that
would present prevent cutting interest
rates anytime soon. So uh he's wanted
this job for a long time and now he gets
it for better or for worse.
>> Baptism of fire may be in the bond
market. Michael, thank you sir.
Appreciate it. Consumer confidence
sitting near their all-time lows as
inflationary pressures continue to
build. Erin McLolin of the Conference
Board writing, "We are seeing more
cracks because of tariffs and oil and
oil and gas prices escalation will be
baked in for months even if the straight
is open tomorrow." Erin joins us now for
more. Erin, good morning. It's good to
see you.
>> We've been talking about markets facing
a positive supply shock. The economy is
experiencing a series of negative supply
shocks. So, you've got a lot of
individual companies raising a lot of
capital, pushing demand into a supply
constrained economy. Doesn't all of that
just equals inflation for the next 12
months?
>> Absolutely. Unfortunately, you US
consumers are dealing with the shock of
from tariffs which are still in, you
know, in the supply chain and now an oil
shock and we don't expect tariffs to go
away and we don't expect the oil shock
to resolve anytime soon.
>> Where are the higher prices showing up
now and where do you expect them to show
up in the future? Okay, so we know high
prices are showing up at the pump, but
they're also showing up for companies
with diesel fuel and jet fuel has
doubled, you know, since the beginning
of the year. We're seeing higher prices
with food and we expect that to
continue. Now, that's obvious because
food needs to be transported, right? The
cost of transportation is going up, but
food is also packaged and so many things
are packaged. So all those prochemicals
that come into plastics that go to those
Asian markets, come back to the US,
those are under increasing pressure due
to the straight of hormones. That said,
it seems like consumers are still
buying. It seems like there hasn't been
huge push back in terms of consumers
going on strike or limiting their
purchases, at least not in aggregate. We
just got retail sales that showed that
still demand. So at what point or are
you starting to see already some push
back or consumers that might be
withdrawing some cash from this?
>> Right. So when we look at yesterday's
retail sales numbers and we take into
consideration the inflationary portion
of it, they are slowing down. So we're
already seeing retail sales slow down.
We know that consumers, you know, more
than 95% of Americans drive to work. So
they need to buy gasoline. They're still
going to buy food. Our consumer
confidence index still has, you know,
the last thing people want to cut back
on is sort of restaurants and bars and
takeout food and and pet care as I was
telling you all earlier. So, we know
that they're still going to prioritize
some of that, but it's some of the
larger purchases that we know folks are
going to cut back on. We also know that
it's consumers that are around $125,000
annual income and up that are what that
are the ones that have really, you know,
keeping the economy going and they're
the ones that have kept the economy
going for the last few years. How much
has the perception of inflation changed
over the past seven years or so? There
was a time when it was predictable what
prices would be at any given time. Then
post pandemic that was flipping around
all over the place, a huge inflationary
wave. And now it seems like it's harder
to gauge what anything's going to cost
at any given time. So people don't
really know. So a lot of companies can
kick things up if they want to.
>> Yes.
>> How much has the psychology around this
changed?
>> I think consumers certainly pre-
pandemic inflation really wasn't on
their mind at all. And so the pandemic
was sort of shocked the consumer into
realizing that this is a problem. But
part of the issue is that even when we
saw it sort of come down, these other
shocks have been in place and I think
consumers are, you know, becoming very
wary because they know that there's
probably more shocks to come and a lot
of that is driven by geopolitical
issues. You know, we are dealing with
the unknown. For example, if we have a
series of hurricanes and we see natural
gas and oil exports and markets in our
Gulf, you know, impacted by that this
summer or fall, that could be another
shock. And so there's the known and the
unknown and there's a lot out there.
>> And yet Kevin Walsh calls inflation a
choice. So what is his northstar going
to be in the next several months, the
next several quarters?
>> Well, we don't expect the Fed to cut. We
know that um that the Fed and you know
our new chair Wars has has you know a
very political you know sort of
environment they're walking into and
it's very unknown and but we don't
expect interest rates to come down. We
don't expect a cut this year.
>> Do you expect them to go up?
>> I don't think so. But again, we really
don't know what's going to happen when
we look at four, five, six months out.
And it's interesting because, you know,
when we take our consumer confidence
index, it's a it's a flash point in
time. It's a two or 3 week survey
period. So, there's times when, you
know, just in the last month, things
felt like, okay, they're getting better.
Labor market numbers are looking good,
there's a truce, and then, you know, a
few weeks down the line, a month down
the line, and we're entering 12 weeks of
this conflict.
>> Do you see numbers from you, Mitch, and
just roll your eyes? What's that survey
all about? Record lows. I I struggle to
get my head around [laughter] that.
There's there's room for for different
numbers in different points of view.
>> You're not buying, are you? Never mind.
All right, Erin. Thank you. Aaron
McLolin there at the conference board. I
imagine they are like here's you Mitch.
Here they go again. Record lows. I
really struggle with that survey. Record
low sentiment. All the bad things that
have happened in the last 40, 50 years.
>> People have looked at that survey and
said increasingly it has a political
element to it. It speaks more to the
polarization and the sort of
tribalization of politics. I'm just
still thinking about this idea. If
people don't have a sense of inflation
coming down and if potentially there's
another shock that could come later, why
would you delay a purchase? If you don't
have faith that that price is actually
going to be lower in the future. This is
the kind of concern,
>> you know, welcome Fed Fed chair.
>> That's why consumer expectations are so
important,
>> right? That's the reason why people are
watching these things.
>> We're looking for clarity from co wash
from the Fed chair, the incoming Fed
chair. And I think it's really
important. That's a feature I think of
the bond market today. That's where
we've lost one of those anchors. We
don't really know the reaction function
of of Kevin Walsh, the Fed chair,
because he didn't really articulate too
much of it in the hearing. There was a
failure, I think, in the hearing of the
individuals there for various reasons on
a Senate Banking Committee, who didn't
really get to the to, I think, the
bigger issues about how he'd respond to
incoming information at any given time.
>> That's why there's a tension right now.
You've got the front end of the yield
curve implying rate hikes, but you have
the S&P implying rate cuts or just rates
on hold for the longer term. And then
you have longer term rates which are
determined by a global trend. Uh that
really has been whipsawed by some of the
oil pricing that we've seen. So you put
this all together, it is kind of messy
and is ripe for some sort of shakeout
one way or another.
>> It's going to be a big meeting in the
next month, which is why I'm off for
vacation to watch the World Cup, but you
know, it's going to be a big meeting.
>> You're not going to the World Cup, are
you?
>> Let's keep updating stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has
more. I I'd never pay that, but I will
watch it on TV. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Now we are seeing Cerebra
shares falling 4 and a4% but that's
after surging yesterday 68% in its
[music] trading debut. The AI chipmaker
raising $5.5 billion in this year's
largest IPO yet. The surge driving the
company's market value to upwards of 67
billion.
The NFL releasing its schedule for the
[music] 2026 season, kicking off with a
Super Bowl rematch between the Seattle
Seahawks and the New England Patriots.
The season opens on Wednesday, September
9th. And workers at the Long Island
Railroad are threatening to walk off the
job tomorrow. Contract talks between New
York City's transit system and the
nation's biggest commuter railroad
hitting a snag over cash payments versus
wage increases. Dutch Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for [music]
this morning and the update. Up next on
the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus, we'll touch base with
Scott Croner, the city on why NASDAQ
[music] has more room to run from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
you're seeing uh you know the the memory
name is basically saying they're
entering into 3 to 5 year long-term
agreements with the hyperscalers because
there's so much demand [music] for it
right now and why that's so important is
because it reduces the you know price
volatility and it gives us much more
earnings visibility than we've ever had
before
>> that was Alistister Pindra of HSBC BC
bullish on this equity market. HSBC, one
of six names since the start of this war
to upgrade their price target on the S&P
500 for year end. Equity futures pulling
back from alltime highs this morning.
We're down by 1.2% on the S&P on the
Nasdaq down by close to 2 percentage
[music] points. The jitters the
epicenter for them coming out of the
bond market this morning. Twos, tens,
and 30s. Yields up across the curve.
Twos through 4% up by five basis points
now. And the pickup continues now up by
eight on tens [music] as we get closer
and closer to the cash open.
>> This is a global issue as a result of
oil prices being higher, but also the
idea that growth isn't slowing
materially enough to offset [music] some
of those inflationary pressures with
demand destruction. The result globally
as a bond sell-off the likes of which we
haven't seen at least in certain places
since [music] 1996.
>> Almost 10 basis points higher in
Germany, almost 20 basis points higher
in the UK. In Japan, [music] PPI coming
in really, really hot. Problems are
building. This bond market at the
moment, not so much treasuries, but
elsewhere [music] certain pockets of it
on the global scene just feeling a
little bit untethered at the moment.
>> How much is the Bank of Japan saying we
should have just hung on to those bonds?
[music] Why did we let the market out of
our control? You know, this is what
happens when you let them when you let
them run free.
>> That's the bond market [music] this
morning. That's what a market is, right?
>> Something like that.
>> You're always thinking about stepping it
in. Anyways, we can't get down to the
opening bell. [music] Coming up over the
next few days, your trading diary looks
like this. Today, Fed chair J. Pal's
term coming to an end, and Philadelphia
Fed President Anna Pollson will be
speaking. So, look out for all of that.
Looking ahead to next week, earnings,
[music] Nvidia, Wednesday, the big one.
Then you've got Target and Walmart in
the mix as well. So, some interesting
detail coming out of the retailers
[music] in the next week or so. Yeah,
right now we're going to see whether
we've got the same kind of retail demand
that has been the real hallmark of the
past couple of weeks. Although, how much
is it also the K-shaped retail sector,
the halves, the have nots with some of
them really deploying incredible
technology. [music]
>> Should we talk about the NASDAQ? What a
record run. Scott Cron of the city with
this to say, "We view the NASDAQ 100 as
a preferred play on the AI buildout.
Fundamental expectations have
demonstrated consistent improvement."
Scott joins us now for more. Scott,
welcome to the program. We've heard the
complaints. We've seen people nitpick at
the NASDAQ and the tech names say it's
too narrow, too concentrated. Scott,
what's the push back? Why stick with the
winners?
>> Well, I think I think that what this
market is doing for all the uh the noise
that we're contending with, whether it's
the inflation, the macro outlook, the uh
around conflict, oil prices, so forth.
You know, I think the guiding light here
is that as go earnings and earnings
growth, so goes stock price action. And
that's what you're getting out of the Q1
reporting period is is in improving
visibility and confidence therefore in
this mega cap growth cohort that is
attached to AI. So if you're looking at
a sort of a mixed macro backdrop and you
want to go to where the fundamentals
look like they have room to continue to
improve, this is where we're dialing in.
It's it's big t big cap tech and I think
the NASDAQ is probably the best direct
expression of that.
>> Scott, there's always this itch to
rotate. You could feel it at the start
of the year. Rotate into the other
names. Rotate and broaden out the rally.
That happened to some extent at the
start of the year. What changed once
this war started? Well, once the war
started, you took it down a different
path. Remember, we went into the year,
Jonathan, looking at sort of a
Goldilocks economic backdrop, soft
landing with room for the Fed rates to
come down. And what do we have? We have
we have the uh inflation spike that's
most most likely triggered by the ramp
in oil prices. And we've been talking
about duration of conflict as mission
critical. So, as we're looking at going
into three months now of the conflict,
elevated oil prices and the the obvious
inflation readthroughs, you you you have
a dualpronged bifurcated market right
now where you've got tech beating to its
drum around the AI infrastructure
spending wave, but then the rest of the
market is acting much more like you'd
expect around this nagging concern
around um higher for longer oil price
influences. Scott, does it make you
nervous that Nvidia rallied 20% in seven
trading days?
>> Uh, yeah, I think on a short-term basis,
Lisa, sure, you always when when you see
moves like that, um, you have to expect
that there's going to be a time and a
pause for to to to digest that move.
But, um, you know, when you look at a
stock like that, you look at the price
action for the past eight months has
been mostly sideways. So one of the ways
I'm thinking about this is is that you
know I think the past several years what
we've seen are these massive moves in
that cohort of stock. Okay, that then
takes time for the fundamentals to grow
into the price action. Then you get to a
point you get renewed confidence in the
longer term growth outlook and you can
rally again. So you know I think there's
a lot of repositioning at work and has
been for several months
within this semiconductor se sector.
Nvidia had been the leader for some
time. You now have other options in
terms of how to position for the picks
and shovels play within the AI AI, you
know, construct. But I think
essentially, yeah, on a very short-term
basis, you have to be wary of the price
action. But underlying the structural
component here is still a pretty pretty
uh decent looking outlook in terms of
the next couple of years for sure. Not
to end on a philosophical note, Scott,
but how worried are you that we don't
really have an end point in terms of
what the ultimate goal is? When is
enough AI? When is it sort of the
ultimate uh end point where we see the
new world in an AI construct uh that we
can determine who's going to be a winner
and loser, not just in tech, but also in
corporate America and beyond.
>> Yeah, you know, it's a really good
question and I think we're going to be
grappling with this for the uh the
months and years to come probably. I I
think there's and we've been talking
about this Lisa there's certainly
inertia right now in every seauite in
America to make sure you've got your AI
strategy and you're pursuing it but you
have to expect that along the way
there's going to be you know some some
uh some pause in terms of how you look
at the implementation of it how quickly
you can find solutions that drive
productivity and then we're going to
have to be on the other side looking at
how this plays through to the labor
condition so I think what your your
point spot on but what we have to be
prepared prepared for is that the
underlying inertia right now looks like
it's pretty set to continue for the
foreseeable future, but this isn't going
to go on forever, right? So, we do have
a window here where we're we're going to
see this this spending benefit drive the
fundamentals, but ultimately ultimately
gosh, we were talking about this a year
ago where we have to get to is a point
where the AI influences really uh along
the lines of lessening some of of the
historic earnings volatility that we've
seen in much of corporate America. If
you can do that, then you end up
justifying a higher for longer valuation
for under for US equities. Scott, 30
seconds. Can your bullish call live with
450 on a 10-year?
>> No. I mean, look at So, so, so 450
probably. Okay. Um, we've learned in the
past couple of years 480 in the past to
on the path to five is no good. So, as
we hit this 450 levelish, we're going to
have to be very uh, you know, careful in
terms of what the trajectory is going
here. But, there's no doubt, no doubt
that um, I think the interest rate
backdrop is certainly going to be a
headwind here. And again what I would
say Jonathan is that one way you offset
the valuation implication of higher
interest rates is stronger earnings
right so we are going to have this this
[music] uh tugofwar going on but yeah as
we push through 450 I think the uh
caution flags start going up a little
bit
>> seeing that this morning Scott thank you
sir Scott Konut there of city [music]
thank you very much coming up next week
stack lineup on Monday look out for that
from New York City this morning good
morning have a wonderful weekend [music]
this was Bloomberg surveillance